The Project Gutenberg EBook of Harrigan, by Max Brand

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Harrigan

Author: Max Brand

Posting Date: November 30, 2010 [EBook #9791]
Release Date: January, 2006
First posted on October 17, 2003

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HARRIGAN ***




Produced by Suzanne Shell, Anuradha Valsa Raj, and Project Gutenberg
Distributed Proofreaders








HARRIGAN

MAX BRAND

1918

Also by Max Brand: BLACK JACK; TROUBLE KID; CLUNG; THUNDER MOON;
THE STINGAREE; RIPPON RIDES DOUBLE; ON THE TRAIL OF FOUR;
STEVE TRAIN'S ORDEAL; LARRAMEE'S RANCH; RIDE THE WILD TRAIL;
THE GUNS OF DORKING HOLLOW; TORTURE TRAIL; THE GENTLE GUNMAN;
THE GARDEN OF EDEN; GOLDEN LIGHTNING; THE STRANGER; MIGHTY LOBO








CHAPTER 1


"That fellow with the red hair," said the police captain as he pointed.

"I'll watch him," the sergeant answered.

The captain had raided two opium dens the day before, and the pride of
accomplishment puffed his chest. He would have given advice to the
sheriff of Oahu that evening.

He went on: "I can pick some men out of the crowd by the way they walk,
and others by their eyes. That fellow has it written all over him."

The red-headed man came nearer through the crowd. Because of the
warmth, he had stuffed his soft hat into a back pocket, and now the
light from a window shone steadily on his hair and made a fire of it, a
danger signal. He encountered the searching glances of the two officers
and answered with cold, measuring eyes, like the gaze of a prize
fighter who waits for a blow. The sergeant turned to his superior with
a grunt.

"You're right," he nodded.

"Trail him," said the captain, "and take a man with you. If that fellow
gets into trouble, you may need help."

He stepped into his automobile and the sergeant beckoned to a nearby
policeman.

"Akana," he said, "we have a man-sized job tonight. Are you feeling
fit?"

The Kanaka smiled without enthusiasm.

"The man of the red hair?"

The sergeant nodded, and Akana tightened his belt. He had eaten fish
baked in ti leaves that evening.

He suggested: "Morley has little to do. His beat is quiet. Shall I tell
him to come with us?"

"No," grinned the sergeant, and then looked up and watched the broad
shoulders of the red-haired man, who advanced through the crowd as the
prow of a ship lunges through the waves. "Go get Morley," he said
abruptly.

But Harrigan went on his way without misgivings, not that he forgot the
policeman, but he was accustomed to stand under the suspicious eye of
the law. In all the course of his wanderings it had been upon him. His
coming was to the men in uniform like the sound of the battle trumpet
to the cavalry horse. This, however, was Harrigan's first night in
Honolulu, and there was much to see, much to do. He had rambled through
the streets; now he was headed for the Ivilei district. Instinct
brought him there, the still, small voice which had guided him from
trouble to trouble all his life.

At a corner he stopped to watch a group of Kanakas who passed him,
wreathed with leis and thrumming their ukuleles. They sang in their
soft, many-voweled language and the sound was to Harrigan like the rush
and lapse of water on a beach, infinitely soothing and as lazy as the
atmosphere of Honolulu. All things are subdued in the strange city
where East and West meet in the middle of the Pacific. The gayest
crowds cannot quite disturb the brooding peace which is like the
promise of sleep and rest at sunset. It was not pleasing to Harrigan.
He frowned and drew a quick, impatient breath, muttering: "I'm not long
for this joint. I gotta be moving."

He joined a crowd which eddied toward the center of Ivilei. In there it
was better. Negro soldiers, marines from the _Maryland_, Kanakas,
Chinamen, Japanese, Portuguese, Americans; a score of nationalities and
complexions rubbed shoulders as they wandered aimlessly among the many
bright-painted cottages.

Yet even in that careless throng of pleasure-seekers no one rubbed
shoulders with Harrigan. The flame of his hair was like a red lamp
which warned them away. Or perhaps it was his eye, which seemed to
linger for a cold, incurious instant on every face that approached. He
picked out the prettiest of the girls who sat at the windows chatting
with all who passed. He did not have to shoulder to win a way through
the crowd of her admirers.

She was a _hap haoli_, with the fine features of the Caucasian and the
black of hair and eye which shows the islander. A rounded elbow rested
on the sill of the window; her chin was cupped in her hand.

"Send these away," said Harrigan, and leaned an elbow beside hers.

"Oh," she murmured; then: "And if I send them away?"

"I'll reward you."

"Reward?"

For answer he dragged a crimson carnation from the buttonhole of a tall
man who stood at his side.

"What in hell--" began the victim, but Harrigan smiled and the other
drew slowly back through the crowd.

"Now send them away."

She looked at him an instant longer with a light coming slowly up
behind her eyes. Then she leaned out and waved to the chuckling
semicircle.

"Run away for a while," she said; "I want to talk to my brother."

She patted the thick red hair to emphasize the relationship, and the
little crowd departed, laughing uproariously. Harrigan slipped the
carnation into the jetty hair. His hand lingered a moment against the
soft masses, and she drew it down, grown suddenly serious.

"There are three policemen in the shadow of that cottage over there.
They're watching you."

"Ah-h!"

The sound was so soft that it was almost a sigh, but she shivered
perceptibly.

"What have you been doing?"

He answered regretfully: "Nothing."

"They're coming this way. The man who had the carnation is with them.
You better beat it."

"Nope. I like it here."

She shook her head, but the flame was blowing high now
in her eyes. A hand fell on Harrigan's shoulder.

"Hey!" said the sergeant in a loud voice.

Harrigan turned slowly and the sergeant's hand fell away. The man of
the carnation was far in the background.

"Well?"

"That flower. You can't get away with little tricks like that. You
better be starting on. Move along."

Harrigan glanced slowly from face to face. The three policemen drew
closer together as if for mutual protection.

"Please--honey!" urged the whisper of the girl.

The hand of Harrigan resting on the window sill had gathered to a
hard-bunched fist, white at the knuckles, but he nodded across the open
space between the cottages.

"If you're looking for work," he said, "seems as though you'd find a
handful over there."

A clatter of sharp, quick voices rose from a group of Negro soldiers
gathering around a white man. No one could tell the cause of the
quarrel. It might have been anything from an oath to a blow.

"Watch him," said Harrigan. "He looks like a man." He added
plaintively: "But looks are deceivin'."

The center of the disturbance appeared to be a man indeed. He was even
taller than Harrigan and broader of shoulder, and, like the latter,
there was a suggestion of strength in him which could not be defined by
his size alone. At the distance they could guess his smile as he faced
the clamoring mob.

"Break in there!" ordered the sergeant to his companions, and started
toward the angry circle.

As he spoke, they heard one of the Negroes curse and the fist of the
tall man darted at the face of a soldier and drove him toppling back
among his comrades. They closed on the white man with a yell; a passing
group of their compatriots joined the affray; the whole mass surged in
around the tall fellow. Harrigan's head went back and his eyes half
closed like a critic listening to an exquisite symphony.

"Ah-h!" he whispered to himself. "Watch him fight!"

The policemen struck the outer edge of the circle with drawn clubs, but
there they stopped. They could not dent that compacted mass. The
soldiers struggled manfully, but they were held at bay. Harrigan could
see the heaving shoulders of the defender over the heads of the
assailants, and the crack of hard-driven fists. The attackers were
crushed together and had little room to swing their arms with full
force, while the big man stood with his back against the wall of the
cottage and made every smashing punch count.

As if by common assent, the soldiers suddenly desisted and gave back
from this deadly fighter. His bellow of triumph rang over the clamor.
His hat was off; his long black hair stood straight up in the wind; and
he leaped after them with flailing arms.

But now the police had managed to pry their way into the mass by dint
of indiscriminate battering. As the black-haired man came face to face
with the sergeant, the light gleamed on a high-swung club that thudded
home; and the big man dropped out of sight. He came up again almost at
once, but with men draped from every portion of his body. The soldiers
and police had joined forces, and once more a dozen men clutched him,
spilling over him like football players in a scrimmage. He was knocked
from his feet by the impact.

"Coming!" shouted Harrigan.

He raced with long strides, head lowered and back bowed until his long
arms nearly swept the ground. Gathering impetus at every stride, he
crushed into the floundering heap of arms and legs. The police sergeant
rose and whirled with lifted club. Harrigan grunted with joy as he dug
his left into the man's midsection. The sergeant collapsed upon the
ground, embracing his stomach with both arms. Harrigan jerked away the
upper layers of the attackers and dragged the black-haired man to his
feet.

"Shoulder to shoulder!" thundered Harrigan, and smote Officer Akana
upon the point of the chin.

The victory was not yet won. The black soldiers of Uncle Sam's regular
army need not take second place to any body of troops in the world.
These men had tasted their own blood and they came tearing in now for
revenge.

Harrigan, standing full in front of the rescued man until the latter
should have recovered his breath, found food for both fists, and his
love of battle was fed. The other man had fought stiffly erect,
standing with feet braced to give the weight of his whole body to every
punch; Harrigan raged back and forth like a panther, avoiding blows by
the catlike agility of his movements, which left both hands free to
strike sledge-hammer blows. Presently he heard a chuckling at his side.
Out of the corner of his eye he saw the black-haired man come into the
battle, straight and stiff as before, with long arms shooting out like
pistons.

It was a glorious sight. Something made Harrigan's heart big; rose and
swelled his throat; rose again and came as a wild yell upon his tongue.
The unfortunates who have faced Irish legions in battle know that yell.
The soldiers did not know it, and they held back for a moment.
Something else lowered their spirits still more. It was the clanging of
the police patrol as it swung to a halt and a body of reserves poured
out.

"Here comes our finish!" panted Harrigan to his comrade in arms. "But
oh, man, I'm thinkin' it was swate while it lasted!"

In his great moments the Irish brogue thronged thick upon his tongue.

"Finish, hell!" grunted the other. "After me, lad!"

And lowering his head like a bull, he drove forward against the crowd.
Harrigan caught the idea in a flash. He put his shoulder to the hip of
his friend. They became a flying wedge with the jabbing fists of the
black-haired man for a point--and they sank into the mass of soldiers
like a hot knife into butter, shearing them apart.

There were few who wished more action, for the police reserves were
capturing man after man. One or two resisted, but a revolver fired
straight in the air put a sudden period to such thoughts. The crowd
scattered in all directions and Harrigan was taking to his heels among
the rest when an iron hand caught his shoulder and jerked him to a
halt. It was the black-haired man.

"Easy," he cautioned. He pulled a cap out and settled it upon his head.
Harrigan followed suit with his soft hat.

"Are you after givin' yourself away to the law?" he queried,
bewildered.

"Steady, you fool," said the other; "they're only after the ones who
run away."

An excited Kanaka confronted them with brandished club.

"What's the cause of the disturbance, officer?" asked the big man.

The policeman for answer waved them away and darted after a running
soldier.

"I'll be damned!" murmured Harrigan, and his eyes dwelt on his
companion's face almost tenderly.

They were at the edge of the crowd when a shrill voice called: "Those
two big men! Halt 'em! Stand!"

Officer Akana ran through the crowd with his regulation Colt brandished
above his head.

"The time's come!" said Harrigan's new friend, and broke into a run.




CHAPTER 2


They were past the thick of the mob now and they dodged rapidly among
the cottages until the clamor of police fell away to a murmur behind
them, and they swung out onto the narrow, dark street which led back
toward the heart of Honolulu. For ten minutes they strode along without
a word. Under the light of a street lamp they stopped of one accord.

"I'm McTee."

"I'm Harrigan."

The gripping of the hands was more than fellowship; it was like a test
of strength which left each uncertain of the other's resources. They
were exactly opposite types. McTee was long of face, with an arched,
cruel nose, gleaming eyes, heavy, straight brows which pointed up and
gave a touch of the Mephistophelian to his expression, a narrow,
jutting chin, and lips habitually compressed to a thin line. It was a
handsome face, in a way, but it showed such a brutal dominance that it
inspired fear first and admiration afterward.

Such a man must command. He might be only the boss of a gang of
laborers, or he might be a financier, but never in any case an
underling. Altogether he combined physical and intellectual strength to
such a degree that both men and women would have stopped to look at
him, and once seen he would be remembered.

On the other hand, in Harrigan one felt only force, not directed and
controlled as in McTee, but impulsive, irregular, irresponsible,
uncompassed. He carried a contradiction in his face. The heavy,
hard-cut jaw, the massive cheekbones, the stiff, straight upper lip
indicated merely brutal endurance and energy, but these qualities were
tempered by possibilities of tenderness about the lips and by the
singular lights forever changing in the blue eyes. He would be hard for
the shrewdest judge to understand, for the simple reason that he did
not know himself.

In looking at McTee, one asked: "What is he?" In looking at Harrigan,
the question was: "What will he become?"

"Stayin' in town long?" asked Harrigan, and his voice was a little
wistful.

"I'm bound out tonight."

"So long, then."

"So long."

They turned on their heels into opposite streets without further words,
with no thanks given for service rendered, with no exchange of
congratulations for the danger they had just escaped. That parting
proved them hardened knights of the road which leads across the world
and never turns back home.

Harrigan strode on full of thought. His uncertain course brought him at
last to the waterfront, and he idled along the black, odorous docks
until he came to a pier where a ship was under steam, making ready to
put out to sea. The spur touched the heart of Harrigan. The urge never
failed to prick him when he heard the scream of a steamer's horn as it
put to sea. It brought the thoughts of far lands and distant cities.

He strolled out to the pier and watched the last ropes cast loose. The
ship was not large, and even in the dark it seemed dingy and
dilapidated. He guessed that, big or small, this boat would carry her
crew to some distant quarter of the world, and therefore to a place to
be desired.

A strong voice gave an order from the deck--a hard voice with a ring in
it like the striking of iron against iron. Harrigan glanced up with a
start of recognition, and by the light of a swinging lantern he saw
McTee. If he were in command, this ship was certainly going to a far
port. Black water showed between the dock and the ship. In a moment
more it would be beyond reach, and that thought decided Harrigan. He
made a few paces back, noted the aperture in the rail of the ship where
the gangplank was being drawn in, then ran at full speed and leaped
high in the air.

The three sailors at the rail shouted their astonishment as Harrigan
struck the edge of the gangplank, reeled, and then pitched forward to
his knees. He rose and shook himself like a cat that has dropped from a
high fence to the ground.

"What're you?"

"I'm the extra hand."

And Harrigan ran up the steps to the bridge. There he found McTee with
the first and second mates.

"McTee," he said, "I came on your ship by chance an' saw you. If you
_can_ use an extra hand, let me stay. I'm footfree an' I need to be
movin' on."

Even through the gloom he caught the glint of the Scotchman's eye.

"Get off the bridge!" thundered McTee.

"But I'm Harrigan, and--"

McTee turned to his first and second mates.

"Throw that man off the bridge!" he ordered.

Harrigan didn't wait. He retreated down the steps to the deck and went
to the rail. A wide gap of swarthy water now extended between the ship
and the dock, but he placed his knee on the rail ready to dive. Then he
turned and stood with folded arms looking up to the bridge, for his
mind was dark with many doubts. He tapped a passing sailor on the
shoulder.

"What sort of an old boy is the captain?"

He made up his mind that according to the answer he would stay with the
ship or swim to the shore, but the sailor merely stared stupidly at him
for a moment and then grinned slowly. There might be malice, there
might be mere ridicule in that smile. He passed on before another
question could be asked.

"Huh!" grunted Harrigan. "I stay!"

He kept his eyes fixed on the bridge, remaining motionless at the rail
for an hour while the glow of Honolulu grew dimmer and dimmer past the
stern. There were lights in the after-cabin and he guessed that the
ship, in a small way, carried both freight and passengers. At last
McTee came down the steps to the deck and as he passed Harrigan
snapped: "Follow me."

He led the way aft and up another flight of steps to the after-cabin,
unlocked a door, and showed Harrigan into the captain's room. Here he
took one chair and Harrigan dropped easily into another.

"Now, what 'n hell was your line of thinkin', McTee," he began, "when
you told me to--"

"Stand up!" said McTee.

"What?"

"Stand up!"

Harrigan rose very slowly. His jaw was setting harder and harder, and
his face became grim.

"Harrigan, you took a chance and came with me."

"Yes."

"I didn't ask you to come."

"Sure you didn't, but if you think you can treat me like a swine and
get away with it--"

It was wonderful to see the eyes of McTee grow small. They seemed to
retreat until they became points of light shining from the deep shadow
of his brow. They were met by the cold, incurious light of Harrigan's
stare.

"You're a hard man, Harrigan."

He made no answer, but listened to the deep thrum of the engines. It
seemed to him that the force which drove the ship was like a part of
McTee's will, a thing of steel.

"And I'm a hard man, Harrigan. On this ship I'm king. There's no will
but my will; there's no right but my right; there's no law but my law.
Remember, on land we stood as equals. On this ship you stand and I
sit."

The thin lips did not curve, and yet they seemed to be smiling cruelly,
and the eyes were probing deep, deep, deep into Harrigan's soul,
weighing, measuring, searching.

"When we reach land," said Harrigan, "I got an idea I'll have to break
you."

He raised his hands, which trembled with the restrained power of his
arms, and moved them as though slowly breaking a stick of wood.

"I've broken men--like that," he finished.

"When I'm through with you, Harrigan, you'll take water from a
Chinaman. You're the first man I've ever seen who could make me stop
and look twice. I need a fellow like you, but first I've got to make
you my man. The best colt in the world is no good until he learns to
take the whip without bucking. I'm going to get you used to the whip.
This is frank talk, eh? Well, I'm a frank man. You're in the harness
now, Harrigan; make up your mind: Will you pull or will you balk? Answer
me!"

"I'll see you damned!"

"Good. You've started to balk, so now you'll have to feel the whip."

He pulled a cord, and while they waited, the relentless duel of the
eyes continued. A flash of instinct like a woman's intuition told
Harrigan what impulse was moving McTee. He knew it was the same thing
which makes the small schoolboy fight with the stranger; the same
curiosity as to the unknown power, the same relentless will to be
master, but now intensified a thousandfold in McTee, who looked for the
first time, perhaps, on a man who might be his master. Harrigan knew,
and smiled. He was confident. He half rejoiced in looking forward to
the long struggle.

A knock came and the door opened.

"Masters," said McTee to the boatswain, "we're three hands short."

"Yes, sir."

"Here are the three hands. Take them forward."




CHAPTER 3


Masters looked at Harrigan, started to laugh, looked again, and then
silently held the door open. Harrigan stepped through it and followed
to the forecastle, a dingy retreat in the high bow of the ship. He had
to bend low to pass through the door, and inside he found that he could
not stand erect. It was his first experience of working aboard a ship,
and he expected to find a scrupulous neatness, and hammocks in place of
beds. Instead he looked on a double row of bunks heaped with swarthy
quilts, and the boatswain with a silent gesture indicated that one of
these belonged to Harrigan. He went to it without a word and sat down
cross-legged to survey his new quarters. It was more like the bunkhouse
of a western ranch than anything else he had been in, but all reduced
to a miniature, cramped and confined.

Now his eyes grew accustomed to the dim, unpleasant light which came
from a single lantern hanging on the central post, and he began to make
out the faces of the sailors. An oily-skinned Greek squatted on the
bunk to his left. To his right was a Chinaman, marvelously emaciated;
his lips pulled back in a continual smile, meaningless, like the grin
of a corpse.

Opposite was the inevitable Englishman, slender, good-looking, with
pale hair and bright, active eyes. Harrigan had traveled over half the
world and never failed to find at least one subject of John Bull in any
considerable group of men. This young fellow was talking with a giant
Negro, his neighbor. The black man chattered with enthusiasm while the
Englishman listened, nodding, intent.

One thing at least was certain about this crew: the Negro, the
Chinaman, the Greek, even the Englishman, despite his slender build,
they were all hard, strong men.

The cook brought out supper in buckets--stews, chunks of stale bread,
tea. As they ate, the sailors grew talkative.

"Slide the slum this way," said the Englishman.

The Negro pushed the bucket across the deck with his foot.

"A hard trip," went on the first speaker.

"All trips on the _Mary Rogers_ is hard," rumbled a voice.

"Aye, but Black McTee is blacker'n ever today."

"He belted the bos'n with a rope end," commented the Negro.

"He ain't human. This is my last trip with him. How about you, John?
You got a lump on your jaw yet where he cracked you for breakin' that
truck."

This was to the Chinaman, who answered in a soft guttural as if there
were bubbling oil in his throat: "Me sail two year Black McTee, an'--"

To finish his speech he passed a tentative hand across his swollen jaw.

"And you'll sail with him till you die, John," said the Englishman.
"When a man has had Black McTee for a boss, he'll want no other. He's
to other captains what whisky is to beer."

The white teeth of the Negro showed. "Maybe Black McTee won't live
long," he suggested.

There was a long silence. It lasted until the supper was finished. It
lasted until the men slid into their bunks. And Harrigan knew that
every man was repeating slowly to himself: "Maybe Black McTee won't
live long."

"Not if this gang goes after him," muttered Harrigan, "and yet--"

He remembered the fight in Ivilei and the heaving shoulders which
showed above the heads of the swarming soldiers. With that picture in
his mind he went to sleep.

They were far out of sight of land in the morning and loafing south
before the trade wind, with a heavy ground swell kicking them along
from behind. Harrigan saw the _Mary Rogers_ plainly for the first time.
She was small, not more than fifteen hundred or two thousand tons, and
the dingiest, sootiest of all tramp freighters. He had little time to
make observations.

In the first place all hands washed down the decks, some of the men in
rubber boots, the others barefooted, with their trousers rolled up
above the knees. Harrigan was one of this number. The cool water from
the hose swished pleasantly about his toes. He began to think better of
life at sea as the wind blew from his nostrils the musty odors of the
forecastle. Then the bos'n, with the suggestion of a grin in his eyes,
ordered him up to scrub the bridge. He climbed the steps with a bucket
in one hand and a brush in the other. There stood McTee leaning against
the wheelhouse and staring straight ahead across the bows. He seemed
quite oblivious of his presence until, having finished his job,
Harrigan started back down the steps.

"D'you call this clean?" rumbled McTee. "All over again!"

And Harrigan dropped to his knees without protest and commenced
scrubbing again. As he worked, he hummed a tune and saw the narrow jaw
of McTee jut out. Harrigan smiled.

He had scarcely finished stowing his bucket and brush away when the
bos'n brought him word that he was wanted in the fireroom. Masters's
face was serious.

"What's the main idea?" asked Harrigan.

The bos'n cast a worried eye fore and aft.

"Black McTee's breakin' you," he said; "you're getting the whip."

"Well?"

"God help you, that's all. Now get below."

There was a certain fervency about this speech which impressed even
Harrigan. He brooded over it on his way to the fireroom. There he was
set to work passing coal. He had to stand in a narrow passage scarcely
wide enough for him to turn about in. On either side was a towering
black heap which slanted down to his feet. Midway between the piles was
the little door through which he shoveled the coal into the fireroom.

All was stifling hot, with a breath of coal dust and smoke to choke the
lungs. Even the Greek firemen sweated and cursed, though they were used
to that environment. An ordinary man might have succumbed simply to
that fiery, foul atmosphere. It was like a glimpse of hell, dark,
hopeless.

It was not the heat or the atmosphere which troubled Harrigan, but his
hands. His skin was puffed and soft from the scrubbing of the bridge.
Now as he grasped the rough wood of the short-handled scoop the
epidermis wore quickly and left his palms half raw. For a time he
managed to shift his grip, bringing new portions of his hands to bear
on the wood, but even this skin was worn away in time. When he finished
his shift, his hands were bleeding in places and raw in the palms.

As he came on deck, he tied them up with bits of soft waste in lieu of
a bandage and made no complaint, yet his fingers were trembling when he
ate supper that night. He caught the eyes of the rest of the crew
studying him with a cold calculation. They were estimating the strength
of his endurance and he knew at once that they had been through the
same trial one by one until they were broken.

He could see that they hated the captain and he wondered why they would
ship with him time and again. He watched their expressions when Black
McTee was mentioned, and then he understood. They were waiting for the
time when the captain should weaken. Then they would have their
revenge.

The second day was a repetition of the first. He began with scrubbing
down the bridge. The suds, strong with lye, ate shrewdly at his raw
hands. Still he hummed as he worked and watched McTee's frown grow
dark. When he was ordered below to the fireroom, he wrapped his hands
in the soft waste again. That helped him for a time, but after the
first two hours the waste matted and grew hard with perspiration and
blood. He had to throw it away and take the shovel handle against his
bare skin. He told himself that it was only a matter of time before
calluses would form, but what chance was there for a formation of
calluses when the water and suds softened his hands every morning?

On the third day he was a little more used to the torture. His hands
were hopelessly raw now, but still he made no complaint and stuck with
his task. That night he secured a rag and retreated to the stretch of
deck between the wheelhouse and the after-cabin, where he squatted
beside a bucket of water and washed his hands carefully. Both hands
were puffed and red; one of the creases in the left palm bled a steady
trickle. He washed them slowly, with infinite relish of the cool water,
until he felt that peculiar sensation which warns us that we are
watched by another eye.

He looked up to see a young woman standing above him at the rail of the
after-cabin. She had been watching him by the light from the window of
the wheelhouse.




CHAPTER 4


"Let me bandage your hands," she said. "I have some salve in my room."

Her voice was a balm to the troubled heart of Harrigan. His knotted
forehead relaxed.

"Are you coming up?"

"Aye."

He ran up the ladder and followed her to a cabin. She rummaged through
a suitcase and finally brought out a little tin box of salve and a roll
of gauze. As she stooped with her back to him, he saw that her hair was
red--not fiery red like his, but a deep dull bronze, with points of
gold where the light struck it. When she straightened and turned, her
eyes went wide, looking up to him, for he bulked huge in the tiny
cabin.

"What a big fellow you are!"

He did not answer for a moment; he was too busy watching her eyes,
which were sea-green, and strangely pleasant and restful.

"Do you know me?" she asked with a slight frown.

"'Scuse me," muttered Harrigan. "I thought at first I did."

He abased his glance while she took one of his hands and turned it palm
up.

"Ugh!" she muttered. "How did this happen?"

"Work."

"Do you mean to say they make you work with your hands in this
condition?"

"Sure."

"Poor fellow! That black captain!"

Her voice had changed from a peculiarly soft, low accent to a shrill
tone that made Harrigan start.

"Poor fellow!" she repeated. "Sit down."

The campstool creaked under the burden of his weight. She pulled up the
chair in front of him and placed his left hand on her knees.

"This is peroxide. Tell me if it hurts too much."

She spilled some of the liquid across his palm; it frothed.

"Ouch!" grunted Harrigan involuntarily.

She caught his wrists with both hands.

"Why, your whole arm is trembling! You must be in torture with this.
Have you made any complaint?"

"No."

She studied him for a moment, scenting a mystery somewhere and guessing
that he would not speak of it. And she asked no questions. She said not
a word and merely bowed her head and started to apply the salve with
delicate touches. For the result, a confession of all his troubles
tumbled up the big man's throat to his tongue. He had to set his teeth
to keep it back.

She became aware of those cold, incurious eyes studying her face as she
wrapped the gauze bandage deftly around the injured palms.

"Why do you watch me so closely?"

It disarmed him. Those possibilities of tenderness came about his
stiff-set lips, and the girl wondered.

"I was thinkin' about my home town."

"Where is it?"

He frowned and waved his hand in a sweep which included half the points
on the compass.

"Back there."

She waited, wrapping up the gauze bandage.

"When I was a kid, I used to go down to the harbor an' watch the ships
comin' in an' goin' out," he went on cautiously.

She nodded, and he resumed with more confidence: "I'd sit on the
pierhead an' watch the ships. I knew they was bringing the smell of far
lands in their holds."

There was a little pause; then his head tilted back and he burst into
the soft, thick brogue: "Ah-h, I was afther bein' woild about the
schooners blowin' out to sea wid their sails shook out like clouds. An'
then I'd look down to the wather around the pier, an' it was green,
deep green, ah-h, the deep sea-green av it! An' I would look into it
an' dream. Whin I seen your eyes--"

He stopped, grown cold as a man will when he feels that he has laid his
inner self indecently bare to the eye of the world. But she did not
stir; she did not smile.

"I felt like a kid again," said Harrigan, recovering from the brogue.
"Like a kid sittin' on the pierhead an' watchin' the green water. Your
eyes are that green," he finished.

Self-consciousness, the very thing which she had been trying to keep
the big sailor from, turned her blood to fire. She knew the quick color
was running from throat to cheek; she knew the cold, incurious eye
would note the change. He was so far aware of the alteration that he
rose and glanced at the door.

"Good-by," she said, and then quite forgetting herself: "I shall ask
the captain to see that you are treated like a white man."

"You will not!"

"I beg your pardon?" she said, but the hint of insulted dignity was
lost on Harrigan.

"You will not," he repeated. "It'd simply make him worse."

She was glad of the chance to be angry; it would explain her
heightening color.

"The captain must be an utter brute."

"I figger he's nine tenths man, an' the other tenth devil, but there
ain't no human bein' can change any of them ten parts. Good-by. I'm
thankin' you. My name's Harrigan."

She opened the door for him.

"If you wish to have that dressing changed, ask for Miss Malone."

"Ah-h!" said Harrigan. "Malone!"

She explained coldly: "I'm Scotch, not Irish."

"Scotch or Irish," said Harrigan, and his head tilted back as it always
did when he was excited. "You're afther bein' a real shport, Miss
Malone!"

"Miss Malone," she repeated, closing the door after him, and vainly
attempting to imitate the thrill which he gave to the word. "What a
man!"

She smiled for a moment into space and then pulled the cord for the
cabin boy.




CHAPTER 5


The cabin boy did duty for all the dozen passengers, and therefore he
was slow in answering. When he appeared, she asked him to carry the
captain word that she wished to speak with him. He returned in a short
time to say that Captain McTee would talk with her now in his cabin.
She followed aft to the captain's room. He did not rise when she
entered, but turned in his chair and relinquished a long, black,
fragrant cigar.

"Don't stop smoking," she said. "I want you in a pleasant mood to hear
what I have to say."

Without reply he placed the cigar in his mouth and the bright black
eyes fastened upon her. That suddenly intent regard was startling, as
if he had leaned over and spoken a word in her ear. She shrugged her
shoulders as if trying to shake off a compelling hand and then settled
into a chair.

"I've come to say something that's disagreeable for you to hear and for
me to speak."

Still he would not talk. He was as silent as Harrigan. She clenched her
hands and drove bravely ahead. She told how she had called the
red-headed sailor up to the after-cabin and dressed his hurts, and she
described succinctly, but with rising anger the raw and swollen
condition of his fingers. The captain listened with apparent enjoyment;
she could not tell whether he was relishing her story or his slowly
puffed cigar. In the end she waited for his answer, but evidently none
was forthcoming.

"Now," she said at last, "I know something about ships and sailors, and
I know that if this fellow was to appeal against you after you touch
port, a judge would weigh a single word of yours against a whole
sentence of Harrigan's. It would be a different matter if a
disinterested person pressed a charge of cruelty against you. I am such
a person; I would press such a charge; I have the money, the time, and
the inclination to do it."

She read the slight hesitation in his manner, not as if he were
impressed by what she had to say, but as though he was questioning
himself as to whether he should give her any answer at all. It made her
wish fervently that she were a man--and a big one. He spoke then, as if
an illuminating thought had occurred to him.

"You know Harrigan's record?"

"No," she admitted grudgingly.

McTee sighed as if with deep relief and leaned back in his chair. His
smile was sympathetic and it altered his face so marvelously that she
caught her breath.

"Of course that explains it, Miss Malone. I don't doubt that he was
clever enough to make you think him abused."

"He didn't say a word of accusation against anyone."

"Naturally not. When a man is bad enough to seem honest--"

He drew a long, slow puff on his cigar by way of finishing his sentence
and his eyes smiled kindly upon her.

"I knew that he would do his worst to start mutiny among the crew; I
didn't think he could get as far as the passengers."

Her confidence was shaken to the ground. Then a new suspicion came to
her.

"If he is such a terrible character, why did you let him come aboard
your ship?"

Instead of answering, he pulled a cord. The bos'n appeared in a moment.

"Tell this lady how Harrigan came aboard," ordered the captain, and he
fastened a keen eye upon the bos'n.

"Made it on the jump while we was pullin' out of dock," said the
sailor. "Just managed to get his feet on the gangplank--came within an
ace of falling into the sea."

"That's all."

The bos'n retreated and McTee turned back to Kate Malone.

"He had asked me to sign him up for this trip," he explained. "If I'd
set him ashore, he'd probably have been in the police court the next
morning. So I let him stay. To be perfectly frank with you, I had a
vague hope that gratitude might make a decent sailor out of him for a
few days. But the very first night he started his work he began to talk
discontent among the men in the forecastle, and such fellows are always
ready to listen. Of course I could throw Harrigan in irons and feed him
on bread and water; my authority is absolute at sea. But I don't want
to do that if I can help it. Instead, I have been trying to discipline
him with hard work. He knows that he can come to me at any time and
speak three words which will release him from his troubles. But he
won't say them--yet!"

"Really?" she breathed.

She began to feel deeply honored that such a man as McTee would make so
long an explanation to her.

"Shall I call him up here and ask him to say them now?"

"Would you do that? Captain McTee, I'm afraid that I've been very
foolish to bother you in this matter, but--"

He silenced her with a wave of the hand, and pulled the cord.

"Bring up Harrigan," he said, when the bos'n appeared again.

"I've considered myself a judge of human nature," she apologized, "but
I shall think a long time before I venture another decision."

"You're wrong to feel that way. It would take a shrewd judge to see
through Harrigan unless his record were known."

The door opened and the bos'n entered with Harrigan. He fixed his eyes
upon the captain without a glance for Kate Malone.

"Harrigan," said McTee, "I've been telling Miss Malone that you can be
released from your trouble by saying half a dozen words to me. And you
know that you can. You will be treated better than anyone in the crew
if you will put your hand in mine and say: 'Captain McTee, I give you
my word of honor as a man to do my best to obey orders during the rest
of this trip and to hold no malice against you for anything that has
happened to me so far.'

"For you see," he explained to the girl, "he probably thinks himself
aggrieved by my discipline. Will you say it, Harrigan?"

Instead of answering, the cold eye of Harrigan turned on Kate.

"I told you not to speak to the captain," he said.

"Ah," said McTee, "you were clever enough for that?"

"Do you say nothing, Harrigan?" she said incredulously. "Do you really
refuse to speak those words to the captain after he has been generous
enough to give you a last chance to make a man of yourself?"

Harrigan turned pale as he glanced at the captain. Her scorn and
contempt gave a little metallic ring to her voice.

"You need not be afraid. Captain McTee hasn't told me anything about
your record."

Harrigan smiled, but in such a manner that she stepped back. "Easy,"
said McTee, "you don't need to fear him in here. He knows that I'm his
master."

"I'm glad you didn't tell me his record," she answered.

"I can read it in his eyes."

"Lady," said Harrigan, and his head tilted back till the cords stood
strongly out at the base of his throat, "I'm afther askin' your pardon
for thinkin' ye had ever a dr-rop av hot Irish blood in ye."

"Take him below, bos'n," broke in McTee, "and put him in on the night
shift in the fireroom."

No hours of Harrigan's life were bitterer than that night shift. The
bandages saved his hands from much of the torture of the shovel handle,
but there was deep night in his heart. Early in the morning one of the
firemen ran to the chief engineer's room and forced open the door.

"The red-headed man, sir," he stammered breathlessly.

The chief engineer awoke with a snarl. He had drunk much good Scotch
whisky that evening, and the smoke of it was still dry in his throat
and cloudy in his brain.

"And what the hell is wrong with the red-headed man now?" he roared.
"Ain't he doin' two men's work still?"

"Two? He's doin' ten men's work with his hands rolled in cloth and the
blood soakin' through, an' he sings like a devil while he works. He's
gone crazy, sir."

"Naw, he ain't," growled the chief; "that'll come later. Black McTee is
breakin' him an' he'll be broke before he goes off his nut. Now get to
hell out of here. I ain't slept a wink for ten days."

The fireman went back to his work muttering, and Harrigan sang the rest
of the night.




CHAPTER 6


In the morning there was the usual task of scrubbing down the bridge.
The suds soaked through the bandages at once and burned his hands like
fire. He tore away the cloths and kept at his task, for he knew that if
he refused to continue, he became by that act of disobedience a
mutineer.

The fourth day was a long nightmare, but at the end of it Harrigan was
still at his post. That night the pain kept him awake. For forty-eight
hours he had not closed his eyes. The next morning, as he prepared his
bucket of suds and looked down at his blood-caked hands, the thought of
surrender rose strongly for the first time. Two things fought against
it: his fierce pride and a certain awe which he had noted as it grew
from day to day in the eyes of the rest of the crew. They were
following the silent battle between the great Irishman and the captain
with a profound, an almost uncanny interest.

As he scrubbed the bridge that morning, McTee, as always, stood staring
out across the bows, impassive, self-contained as a general overlooking
a field of battle. And the temptation to surrender swelled up in the
throat of Harrigan like the desire for speech in a child. He kept his
teeth hard together and prayed for endurance. Only five days, and it
might be weeks before they made a port. Even then the captain might put
him in irons rather than risk his escape.

"Harrigan," said McTee suddenly. "Don't keep it up. You're bound to
break. Speak those words now that I told you to say and you're a free
man."

Harrigan looked up and the words formed at the base of his tongue.
Harrigan looked down and saw his crimson hands. The words fell back
like dust on his heart.

"Take you for my master an' swear to forget what you've done?" he said,
and his voice was hardly more than a whisper. "McTee, if I promised you
that I'd perjure blacker 'n hell an' kill you someday when your back
was turned. As it is, I'll kill you while we're standin' face to face."

McTee laughed, low, deep, and his eyes were half closed as if he heard
pleasant music. Harrigan grinned up at him.

"I'll kill you with my bare hands. There's no gun or knife could do
justice to what's inside of me."

His head tilted back and his whisper went thick like that of a
drunkard: "Ah-h, McTee, look at the hands, look at the hands! They're
red now for a sign av the blood av ye that'll someday be on 'em!"

And he picked up his bucket and brush and went down the deck. The laugh
of McTee followed him.

Having framed the wish in words, it was never absent from Harrigan's
mind now. It made that day easier for him. He stopped singing. He
needed all his brain energy to think of how he should kill McTee.

It was this hungry desire which sustained him during the days which
followed. The rest of the crew began to sense the mighty emotion which
consumed Harrigan. When they saw both him and McTee on the deck, their
eyes traveled from one to the other making comparisons, for they felt
that these men would one day meet hand to hand. They could not stay
apart any more than the iron can keep from the magnet.

Finally Harrigan knew that they were nearing the end of their long
journey. The port was only a few days distant, for they were far in the
south seas and they began to pass islands, and sometimes caught sight
of green patches of water. Those were the coral reefs, the terror of
all navigators, for they grow and change from year to year. To a
light-draught ship like the _Mary Rogers_ these seas were comparatively
safe, but not altogether. Even small sailing craft had come to grief in
those regions.

Yet the islands, the reefs, the keen sun, the soft winds, the singing
of the sailors, all these things came dimly to Harrigan, for he knew
that his powers of resistance were almost worn away. His face was a
mask of tragedy, and his body was as lean as a starved wolf in winter.
His will to live, his will to hate, alone remained.

Each morning it was harder for him to leave the bridge without speaking
those words to the captain. He rehearsed them every day and vowed they
would never pass his lips. And every day he knew that his vow was
weaker. When he was about to give in, he chanced to see McTee and Kate
Malone laughing together on the promenade.

It was McTee who saw Harrigan first and pointed him out to Kate. She
leaned against the rail and peered down at him, shuddering at the sight
of his drawn face and shadowed eyes. Then she turned with a little
shrug of repulsion.

McTee must have made some humorous comment, for she turned to glance
down at Harrigan again and this time she laughed. Blind rage made the
blood of the Irishman hot. That gave him his last strength, but even
this ran out. Finally he knew that the next day was his last, and when
that day came, he counted the hours. They passed heavy-footed, as time
goes for one condemned to die. And then he sat cross-legged on his bunk
and waited.

The giant Negro came, bringing word that the bos'n wanted him to scrub
down the bridge. He remained with his head bowed, unhearing. The bos'n
himself came, cursing. He called to Harrigan, and getting no answer
shook him by the shoulder. He put his hand under Harrigan's chin and
raised the listless head. It rolled heavily back and the dull eyes
stared up at him.

"God!" said the bos'n, and started back.

The head remained where he had placed it, the eyes staring straight up
at the ceiling.

"God!" whispered the bos'n again, and ran from the forecastle.

In time--it seemed hours--Harrigan heard many voices approaching.
McTee's bass was not among them, but he knew that McTee was coming, and
Harrigan wondered whether he would have the strength to refuse to obey
and accept the fate of the mutineer; or whether terror would overwhelm
him and he would drop to his knees and beg for mercy. He had once seen
a sight as horrible. The voices swept closer. McTee was bringing all
the available crew to watch the surrender, and Harrigan prayed with all
his soul to a nameless deity for strength.

Something stopped in the Irishman. It was not his heart, but something
as vital. The very movement of the earth seemed to be suspended when
the great form blocked the door to the forecastle and the ringing voice
called: "Harrigan!"

At the summons Harrigan's jaw fell loosely like that of an exhausted
distance-runner, and long-suppressed words grew achingly large in his
throat.

"I've had enough!" he groaned.

"Harrigan!" thundered the captain, and Harrigan knew that his attempted
speech had been merely a silent wish.

"God help me!" he whispered hoarsely, and in response to that brief
prayer a warm pulse of strength flooded through him. He sprang to his
feet.

"I refuse to work!" he cried, and this time the sound echoed back
against his ears.

There was a long pause.

"Mutiny!" said McTee at last, and his voice was harsh with the
knowledge of his failure. "Bring him outside in the open. I'll deal
with him!"

He retreated from the door, but before any of the sailors could go in
to fulfill the order, Harrigan walked of his own accord out onto the
deck. The wind on his face was sweet and keen; the vapors blew from
eyes and brain. He was himself again, weaker, but himself. He saw the
circle of wondering, awe-stricken faces; he saw McTee standing with
folded arms.




CHAPTER 7


"Mutiny on the high seas," the captain was saying, "is as bad as murder
on dry land. I could swing you by the neck from the mast for this,
Harrigan, and every court would uphold me. Or I can throw you into the
irons and leave your trial until we touch port. But--stand back!"

At the wave of his hand the circle spread. McTee stepped close to
Harrigan.

"I could do all that I've said, but why should I waste you on a prison
when there's a chance that I can use for myself? Harrigan, will you
stand up to me, man to man, and fist to fist, fighting fair and square
without advantage, and then if I thrash you, will you be my man? If I
beat you, will you swear to follow me, to do my bidding? Harrigan, if I
have you to work for me--I'll be king of the south seas!"

"Man to man--fair and square?" repeated Harrigan vaguely. "I'm weak.
You've had me in hell an' sweated me thin, McTee. If I was my old self,
I'd jump at the chance."

"Then it's irons for you and ten years for mutiny when we reach port."

"Ah-h, damn your heart!"

"But if I beat you, you'll be a lord of men, Harrigan, with only one
king over you--McTee! You'll live on the fat of the land and the
plunder of the high seas if you serve McTee."

"What oath could I swear that you'd believe?"

"Your hand in mind for a pledge--I ask no more."

He held out his hand. The lean, strong fingers fascinated Harrigan.

"I'd rather take your throat than your hand, McTee--an' mebbe I
will--an' mebbe I will!"

He caught the hand in his own cracked, stained, black palm. The smile
of McTee was like the smile of Satan when he watched Adam driven from
the Eden.

"Strip to the waist," he said, and turned on the crew.

"You know me, lads. I've tried to break Harrigan, but I've only bent
him, and now he's going to stand up to me man to man, and if he wins,
he's free to do as he likes and never lift a hand till we reach port.
Aye, lick your chops, you dogs. There's none of you had the heart to
try what Harrigan is going to try."

If they did not actually lick their chops, there was hunger in their
eyes and a strange wistfulness as they watched Harrigan strip off his
shirt, but when they saw the wasted arms, lean, with the muscles
defined and corded as if by famine, their faces went blank again. For
they glanced in turn at the vast torso of McTee. When he moved his
arms, his smooth shoulders rippled in significant spots--the spots
where the driving muscles lay. But Harrigan saw nothing save the throat
of which he had dreamed.

"This is to the finish?" said McTee.

"Aye."

"And no quarter?"

Harrigan grinned, and slipped out to the middle of the deck. Both of
them kicked off their shoes. Even in their bare feet it would be
difficult to keep upright, for the _Mary Rogers_ was rollicking through
a choppy sea. Harrigan sensed the crew standing in a loose circle with
the hunger of the wolf pack in winter stamped in their eyes.

McTee stood with his feet braced strongly, his hands poised. But
Harrigan stole about him with a gliding, unequal step. He did not seem
preparing to strike with his hands, which hung low, but rather like one
who would leap at the throat with his teeth. The ship heaved and
Harrigan sprang and his fists cracked--one, two. He leaped out again
under the captain's clubbed hands. Two spots of red glowed on McTee's
ribs and the wolf pack moistened their lips.

"Come again, Harrigan, for I've smelled the meat, not tasted it."

"It tastes red--like this."

And feinting at McTee's body, he suddenly straightened and smashed both
hands against the captain's mouth. McTee's head jarred back under the
impact. The wolf pack murmured. The captain made a long step, waited
until Harrigan had leaped back to the side of the deck to avoid the
plunge, and then, as the deck heaved up to give added impetus to his
lunge, he rushed. The angle of the deck kept the Irishman from taking
advantage of his agility. He could not escape. One pile-driver hand
cracked against his forehead--another thudded on his ribs. He leaped
through a shower of blows and clinched.

He was crushed against the rail. He was shaken by a quick succession of
short arm punches. But anything was preferable to another of those
long, driving blows. He clung until his head cleared. Then he shook
himself loose and dropped, as if dazed, to one knee. McTee's bellow of
triumph filled his ears. The captain bore down on him with outstretched
hands to grapple at his throat, but at the right instant Harrigan rose
and lurched out with stiff arm. The punch drove home to the face with a
shock that jarred Harrigan to his feet and jerked McTee back as if
drawn by a hand. Before he recovered his balance, Harrigan planted half
a dozen punches, but though they shook the captain, they did not send
him down, and Harrigan groaned.

McTee bellowed again. It was not pain. It was not mere rage. It was a
battle cry, and with it he rushed Harrigan. They raged back and forth
across the deck, and the wolf pack drew close, cursing beneath their
breath. They had looked for a quick end to the struggle, but now they
saw that the fighters were mated. The greater strength was McTee's; the
greater purpose was Harrigan's. McTee fought to crush and conquer;
Harrigan fought to kill.

The blows of the captain flung Harrigan here and there, yet he came
back to meet the attack, slinking with sure, catlike steps. The heel
and pitch of the deck sometimes staggered the captain, but Harrigan
seemed to know beforehand what would happen, and he leaped in at every
opening with blows that cut the skin.

His own flesh was bruised. He bled from mouth and nose, but what was
any other pain compared with the torture of his clenched fists? It made
his arms numb to the elbow and sent currents of fire through his veins.
His eyes kept on the thick throat of McTee. Though he was knocked
reeling and half senseless, his stare never changed, and the wolf pack,
with their heads jutting forward with eagerness watched, waited. The
"Ha!" of McTee rang with the strength of five throats. The "Wah-h!" of
Harrigan purred like a furious panther's snarl.

Then as the frenzy left Harrigan and the numbness departed from his
arms, he knew that he was growing weaker and weaker. In McTee's eyes he
saw the growing light of victory, the confidence. His own wild hunger
for blood grew apace with his desperation. He flung himself forward in
a last effort.

A ponderous fist cracked home between his eyes, fairly lifting him from
his feet and hurling him against the base of the wheelhouse. Then a
forearm shot under his shoulder and a hand fastened on the back of his
neck in an incomplete half-Nelson. As McTee applied the pressure,
Harrigan felt his vertebral column give under the tremendous strain. He
struggled furiously but could not break the grip. Far away, like the
storm wind in the forest, he heard the moan of the wolf pack.

"Give in! Give in!" panted McTee.

"Ah-h!" snarled Harrigan.

He felt the deck swing and jerked his legs high in the air. He could
not have broken that grip of his own strength, but the sway of the deck
gave his movement a mighty leverage. The hand slipped from his neck,
scraping skin away, as if a red-hot iron had been drawn across the
flesh. But he was half loosed, and that twist of his body sent them
both rolling one over the other to the scuppers of the ship--and it was
McTee who crashed against the rail, receiving the blow on the back of
his head. His eyes went dull; the red hands of Harrigan fastened on his
throat.

"God!" screamed McTee, and gripped Harrigan's wrists, but the Irishman
heaved him up and beat his head against the deck.

McTee's jaws fell open, and a bloody froth bubbled to his
lips; his eyes thrust out hideously.

"Ah-h!" snarled Harrigan, and shifted his grip lower, his thumbs
digging relentlessly into the great throat. This time the giant limbs
of the captain relaxed as if in sleep. Then through the fierce singing
in his ears the Irishman heard a yell. He turned his head. The wolf
pack saw their prey pulled down at last. They ran now to join the kill,
not men, but raging devils. Harrigan sprang to his feet, catching up a
marlinspike, and whirled it above his head.

"Back!" he shouted.

They shrank back, growling one to the other savagely, irresolute. There
came a moan at Harrigan's feet. He leaned over and lifted the bulk of
the captain's inert body. As if through a haze he saw the chief
engineer and the two mates running toward him and caught the glitter of
a revolver in the hands of the first officer. The Irishman's battered
lips stretched to a shapeless grin.

"Help me to the captain's cabin," he said. "He's afther bein' sick."




CHAPTER 8


And the four of them went aft carrying McTee's body. On the promenade
they passed Kate Malone. She shrank against the rail, her eyes blank
and her face white.

"He's dead!" she cried.

"He's just beginnin' to live," said Harrigan.

The captain was muttering faintly as they laid him on the bunk in his
room. "Now get out," commanded Harrigan. "I will be alone with him when
he wakes up. I have something to whisper in his ear."

"Is it safe?" said the first mate to the chief engineer, gesturing with
his weapon.

Harrigan snatched it away and waved it like a club above his head.

"Get out, or I'll bash your skull in."

His face was hideous, cut and blood-stained, starved with the long
hunger and lighted with the victory. They slunk from the cabin, backing
out as if they expected him to rush them. Harrigan locked the door and
started to tend the captain. He washed McTee to the waist, cleansed the
cut places carefully, and covered them with narrow strips of adhesive
tape which he found in a small medicine chest. As the heavier breathing
of the captain indicated that he was about to recover his senses,
Harrigan performed the same services for himself. It was slow work, for
now that the stimulus of action was gone, his weakness grew on him in
recurrent waves. Finally a sound made him turn to see McTee propping
himself up on the bunk with one elbow; his eyes, unconfused and steady,
looked brightly out at Harrigan.

"You beat me?"

"It was the swing of the deck that rolled you over and broke your grip.
I've stayed to tell you that."

"Chances or no chances, you beat me."

"Man, you'd have busted my back if it hadn't been for that buck of the
ship. When your hand came away, it took the skin with it."

"And that's why you didn't finish me?"

"Aye."

"You'll never have the chance again."

"I want no chances; I want no help except my own strength as it was
before you withered me with your hellfire."

"When we stand up again, I'll kill you, Harrigan."

"When we stand up again, I'll break you, Black McTee--like a rotten
stick."

"Lie down here," said the captain, rising quickly. "You're sick."

He forced Harrigan onto the bunk and stretched him out at full length.
The Irishman clenched his hands and fought against the sleep which
crept over his senses.

"There's fire in my brain," muttered Harrigan, "an' it's trying to burn
its way out."

McTee dipped a towel in cool water.

"I kept the rest of them away," went on the Irishman. "When you woke
up, I wanted you to hear why I didn't finish you."

He raised his shaking hands and gripped at the air.

"Ah-h! When me ould silf is back, I'll shtand up to ye. Tis a promise,
McTee. Black McTee, Black McTee--I'll make ye Red McTee--red as the
palms av me hands."

McTee tied the cold, wet towel around Harrigan's forehead.

"I'll kill you by inches, Harrigan. You'll read hell in my eyes before
your end. Drink this!"

He raised Harrigan's almost lifeless head and forced the neck of a
whisky bottle between his teeth.

"Ah-h!" said Harrigan, blinking and coughing after the strong liquor
had burned its way down his throat. "The feel av your throat under me
thumbs was sweeter than the touch av a colleen's hand, McTee! I'm dead
for shlape!"

And instantly his eyes closed; his breathing was deep and sonorous. The
captain watched him for a long moment, then sat down and laying a hand
on the sleeping man's wrist, he counted the pulse carefully. It was
irregular and feeble.

"Time is all he needs," muttered McTee to himself, and he sat staring
before him, dreaming. "A fool can live well," he was thinking, "but it
takes a great man to die well. Harrigan will make a fine death." In the
meantime the big Irishman slept heavily, and Black McTee tended him
well, keeping the towel cool and wet about his forehead. The pulse was
gaining rapidly in strength and regularity; sleep seemed to act upon
Harrigan as food acts upon a starved man. At times he smiled, and McTee
could guess at the dream which caused it. He was dreaming of killing
McTee, and McTee sat by and understood, and smiled with deep content.
He, also, was tasting his thoughts of the battle-to-be when, without
any warning rap, the door swung open and the burly form of Bos'n
Masters appeared.

"The first mate--" he began.

"Did you knock?"

"I've got no time to waste, the first mate--"

McTee rose. In the frank, bold eyes of the bos'n he read the open
revolt, and understood. He had been beaten in open battle; his crew
felt that they were liberated by the victory of their champion.

"Who told you to enter without knocking?" he broke
in.

"I don't need telling," said the dauntless bos'n. "The first mate's
drunk an'--"

The heavy fist of McTee landed on Masters's mouth and hurled him in a
heap into the corner of the cabin. The captain seized him by the nape
of the neck and jerked him back to his feet, blinking and gasping,
thoroughly subdued.

"Get out and come in as you should."

The bos'n fled. A moment later a timid knock came at the door and McTee
bade him enter. He stepped in, cap in hand, his eyes on the floor.

"The first mate's drunk, sir, an' runnin' amuck with the ship. He's at
the wheel an' he won't leave it. We've nearly scraped one reef already.
You know this ain't any open sea, sir. There's green water everywhere."

"Go up and give the fool my orders. Tell the second officer to take the
wheel."

The bos'n retreated, but he returned within a few moments.

"He won't leave the wheel," he reported. "He said you could take your
orders to the devil, sir."

"I'll tie him to the deck and skin him alive," said McTee calmly. "Stay
here and watch Harrigan while I--"

He was jerked from his feet and hurled across the room, crashing
against the cabin wall. When his senses returned, he was sitting on the
floor staring stupidly into the white face of the bos'n, who was in a
similar posture. Harrigan, who had been flung from the bunk, staggered
to his feet.

"What the deuce is up?" asked the Irishman.

A chorus of piercing yells rose in answer from the deck outside.

"The end of the _Mary Rogers_," said McTee. "Stay with me, Harrigan."

He caught the latter by the arm and dragged him out onto the deck. The
hull of the ship at the bow must have been literally ripped away by the
impact against the reef; already the deck sloped sharply to the bows.

McTee raised a voice that rang like a trumpet over the clamor as he
gave his orders to clear away the boats. If he had been a moment
earlier, he might have succeeded in getting at least one of them safely
launched, but now the _Mary Rogers_ was settling to her doom with a
speed which made the crew senseless with terror. A half-gale which
promised to swell soon into a veritable hurricane seemed to be lifting
the freighter by the heel and driving her nose into the sea. The quick
settling twilight of the tropics made the waters doubly cold and dark.

Not till the bows of the _Mary Rogers_ were deep below the waves and
her propeller humming loudly in the air did the captain desist from his
efforts to bring order out of the panic of the crew. Half a dozen men,
with the Chinaman at their head, had cut one boat from its davits, but
plunging into it before it fairly struck the water, they tipped it far
to one side. It filled instantly and sank, leaving its occupants
struggling on the surface. The Chinaman, who apparently could not swim,
gave up the struggle at once. He threw his clutching hands high above
his head and went down; his scream was the first death cry of the wreck
of the _Mary Rogers_.

McTee, with Harrigan at his heels, rushed for the second lifeboat.
Under the directions of the captain, pointed and emphasized by blows of
his fist, the boat was swung safely from the davits and lowered to the
sea. The instant that it rode the waves, bouncing up and down on the
choppy surface, the crew began leaping in, the drunken mate being the
first overside.

The lifeboat was loaded from stem to stern, and only Harrigan, McTee,
and half a dozen more remained on the ship when the boat swung a dozen
feet away from the _Mary Rogers_ and with the next wave was picked up
and smashed against the freighter. Its side went in like a matchbox
pressed by a strong thumb, and it zigzagged quickly below the surface.
The yells of the swimmers rose in a long wail. McTee caught Harrigan by
the shoulder and shouted in his ear: "Stay close and do what I do."

"Miss Malone!" yelled Harrigan in answer, and pointed.

She stood by the after-cabin, clinging to the rail with one hand while
she attempted to adjust a life preserver with the other. The _Mary
Rogers_ lurched forward, a long slide that buried half of the ship
under the sea. A giant wave towered above the side and licked the
wheelhouse away.

"Let her go!" roared McTee. "Save ourselves and let her
go."

It was a matter of seconds now before the last of the _Mary Rogers_
should disappear. They clambered up to the after-cabin.

"For the love av God, McTee, she's a woman!"


The Irishman struggled up the deck toward the girl, but the captain
caught him and held him fast.

"There's one chance," shouted Black McTee, and he pointed to the litter
of the wrecked wheelhouse which tossed on the waves. "Overboard and
make for a big timber."

But the eyes of Harrigan held on the form of the girl. They could only
make out the shadow of her form with her hair blowing wildly on the
wind. Then as swift as the sway of a bird's wing, a mass of black water
tossed over the side of the _Mary Rogers_. When it was gone, the
shadowy figure of the girl had disappeared with it.

"Now!" thundered McTee.

"Aye," said Harrigan.




CHAPTER 9


They climbed the rail. Plainly Harrigan had made them delay too long,
for now they had not time to swim beyond the reach of the swirl that
would form when the ship went down. The _Mary Rogers_ lurched to her
grave as they sprang from the rail. A wave caught them and washed them
beyond the grip of the whirlpool; another wave swung them back, and the
waters sucked them down. Such was the force of that downward pull that
it seemed to Harrigan as if a weight were attached to either foot. He
drew a great, gasping breath before his head went under and then struck
out with all his might.

When his lungs seemed bursting with the labor, he whirled to the
surface again and drew another gasping breath. The storm had torn a
rift in the clouds and through it looked the moon as if some god were
peering through the curtain of mist to watch the havoc he was working.
By this light Harrigan saw that he was being drawn down in a narrowing
circle. Straight before him loomed a black fragment of the wreckage. He
tried to swing to one side, but the current of the water bore him on.
He received a heavy blow on the head and his senses went out like a
snuffed light.

When consciousness returned, there was a sharp pain in both head and
right shoulder, for it was on his shoulder that McTee had fastened his
grip. The captain sprawled on a great timber, clutching it with both
legs and one arm. With the free hand he held Harrigan. All this the
Irishman saw by the haggard moonlight. Then they were pitched high up
on the crest of a wave. As Harrigan grappled the timber with arms and
legs, it turned over and over and then pitched down through empty
space. The wind had literally cut away the top of the wave. He went
down, submerged, and then rose to a giddy height again. As he caught a
great breath of air, he saw that McTee was no longer on the timber.

A shout reached him, the sound being cut off in the middle by the noise
of the wind and waves. He saw McTee a dozen feet away, swimming
furiously. He came almost close enough to touch the timber with his
hands, and then a twist of the wave separated them. Harrigan worked
down the timber until he reached the end of the stanchion which was
nearest Black McTee. All that time the captain was struggling, but
could not draw closer. The wood was drifting before the wind faster
than he could swim.

When he reached the end of the timber, Harrigan wound his long arms
tightly around it and let his legs draw out on the water. McTee, seeing
the purpose of the maneuver, redoubled his efforts. On a wave crest the
storm swept Harrigan still farther away; then they dropped into a
hollow and instantly he felt a mighty grip fall on his ankle. They
pitched up again with the surge of a wave so sharp and sudden that what
with his own weight and the tugging burden of McTee behind him,
Harrigan felt as if his arms would be torn from their sockets. He kept
his hold by a mighty effort, and the tremendous grip of McTee held fast
on his ankle until they dropped once more into a hollow. Then the
captain jerked himself hand over hand up the body of Harrigan until he
reached the timber. They lay panting and exhausted on the stanchion,
embracing it with arms and legs.

Sometimes the wind sent the timber with its human freight lunging
through a towering wave; and several times the force of the storm
caught them and whirled them over and over. When they rose to a wave
crest, they struggled bitterly for life; when they fell into the
trough, they drew long breaths and freshened their holds.

Save once when Harrigan reached out his hand and set it upon that of
Black McTee. The captain met the grip, and by the wild moonlight they
stared into each other's faces. That handshake almost cost them their
lives, for the next moment the full breath of the storm caught them and
wrenched furiously at their bodies. Yet neither of them regretted the
handclasp, for all its cost. If they died now, it would be as brothers.
They had at least escaped from the greatest of all horrors, a lonely
death.

It seemed as if the storm acknowledged the strength of their
determination. It fell away as suddenly as it had risen. A heavy ground
swell still ran, but without the wind to roughen the surface and
sharpen the crests, the big timber rode safely through the sea. The
storm clouds were dropping back in a widening circle beneath the moon
when, as they heaved up on the top of a wave, Harrigan suddenly pointed
straight ahead and shouted hoarsely. On the horizon squatted a black
shadow, darker than any cloud.

All night they watched the shadow grow, and when the morning came and
the tropic dawn stepped suddenly up from the east, the light glinted on
the unmistakable green of verdure.

With the help of the steady wind they drifted slowly closer and closer
to the island. By noon they abandoned the timber and started swimming,
but the submerged beach went out far more gradually than they had
expected. The last hundred yards they walked arm in arm, floundering
through the gentle surf.

Then they stumbled up the beach, reeling with weariness, and sprawled
out in the shade of a palm tree. They were asleep almost before they
struck the sand.

It was late afternoon when they woke, ravenously hungry, their throats
burning with thirst. For food McTee climbed a coconut palm and knocked
down some of the fruit. They split the gourds open on a rock, drank the
liquor, and ate heartily of the meat. That quelled their appetites, but
the sweet liquor only partially appeased their thirst, and they started
to search the island for a spring. First they went to the center of the
place to a small hill, and from the top of this they surveyed their
domain. The island was not more than a thousand yards in width and
three or four miles in length. Nowhere was there any sign of even a
hut.

"Well?" queried Harrigan, seeing McTee frown.

"We can live here," explained the captain, "but God knows how long it
will be before we sight a ship. Our only hope is for some tramp
freighter that's trying to find a short cut through the reefs. Even if
we sight a tramp, how'll we signal her?"

"With a fire."

"Aye, if one passes at night. We could stack up wood on the top of this
hill. The island isn't charted. If a skipper saw a light, he might take
a chance and send a boat. But how could we kindle a fire?"

They went slowly down the hill, their heads bent. At the base, as if
placed in their path to cheer them in this moment of gloom, they found
a spring. It ran a dozen feet and disappeared into a crevice. They
cupped the water in their hands and drank long and deep. When they
stood up again, McTee dropped a hand on Harrigan's shoulder. He said:
"You've cause enough for hating me."

"Pal," said Harrigan, "you're nine parts devil, but the part of you
that's a man makes up for all the rest."

McTee brooded: "Now we're standing on the rim of the world, and we've
got to be brother to each other. But what if we get off the
island--there's small chance of it, but what if we should? Would we
remember then how we took hands in the trough of the sea?"

Harrigan raised his hand.

"So help me God--" he began.

"Wait!" broke in McTee. "Don't say it. Suppose we get off the island,
and when we reach port find one thing which we both want. What then?"

Harrigan remembered a word from the Bible.

"I'll never covet one of your belongin's, McTee, an' I'll never cross
your wishes."

"Your hair is red, Harrigan, and mine is black; your eye is blue and
mine is black. We were made to want the same thing in different ways.
I've never met my mate before. I can stand it here on the rim of the
world--but in the world itself--what then, Harrigan?"

They stepped apart, and the glance of the black eye crossed that of the
cold blue.

"Ah-h, McTee, are ye dark inside and out? Is the black av your eye the
same as the soot in your heart?"

"Harrigan, you were born to fight and forget; I was born to fight and
remember. Well, I take no oath, but here's my hand. It's better than
the oath of most men."

"A strange fist," grinned Harrigan; "soft in the palm and hard over the
knuckles--like mine."

They went down the hill toward the beach, Harrigan singing and McTee
silent, with downward head. On the beach they started for some rocks
which shelved out into the water, for it was possible that they might
find some sort of shellfish on the rocks below the surface of the
water. Before they reached the place, however, McTee stopped and
pointed out across the waves. Some object tossed slowly up and down a
short distance from the beach.

"From the wreck," said McTee. "I didn't think it would drift quite as
fast as this."

They waded out to examine; the water was not over their waists when
they reached it. They found a whole section from the side of the
wheelhouse, the timbers intact.

_On it lay Kate Malone, unconscious._

Manifestly she never could have kept on the big fragment during the
night of the storm had it not been for a piece of stout twine with
which she had tied her left wrist to a projecting bolt. She had wrapped
the cord many times, but despite this it had worn away her skin and
sunk deep in the flesh of her arm. Half her clothes were torn away as
she had been thrown about on the boards. Whether from exhaustion or the
pain of her cut wrist, she had fainted and evidently lain in this
position for several hours; one side of her face was burned pink by the
heat of the sun.

They dragged the float in, and McTee knelt beside the girl and pressed
an ear against her breast.

"Living!" he announced. "Now we're three on the rim of the world."

"Which makes a crowd," grinned Harrigan.




CHAPTER 10


They started working eagerly to revive her. While McTee bathed her face
and throat with handfuls of the sea water, Harrigan worked to liberate
her from the twine. It was not easy. The twine was wet, and the knot
held fast. Finally he gnawed it in two with his teeth. McTee, at the
same time, elicited a faint moan. Her wrist was bruised and swollen
rather than dangerously cut. Harrigan stuffed the twine into his hip
pocket; then the two Adams carried their Eve to the shade of a tree and
watched the color come back to her face by slow degrees.

The wind now increased suddenly as it had done on the evening of the
wreck. It rose even as the day darkened, and in a moment it was rushing
through the trees screaming in a constantly rising crescendo. The rain
was coming, and against that tropical squall shelter was necessary.

The two men ran down the beach and returned dragging the ponderous
section of the wheelhouse. They leaned the frame against two trunks at
the same instant that the first big drops of rain rattled against it.
Overhead they were quite securely protected by the dense and
interweaving foliage of the two trees, but still the wind whistled in
at either side and over and under the frame of boards. Of one accord
they dropped beside their patient.

She was trembling violently; they heard the light, continuous
chattering of her teeth. After her many hours under the merciless sun,
this sudden change of temperature might bring on the fever against
which they could not fight. They stripped off their shirts and wound
them carefully around her shivering body. McTee lifted her in his arms
and sat down with his back to the wind. Harrigan took a place beside
him, and they caught her close. They seemed to be striving by the force
of their will to drive the heat from their own blood into her trembling
body. But still she moaned in her delirium, and the shivering would not
stop.

Then the great idea came to Harrigan. He rose without a word and ran
out into the rain to a fallen tree which must have been blown down
years before, for now the trunk and the splintered stump were rotten to
the core. He had noticed it that day. There was only a rim of firm wood
left of the wreck. The stump gave readily enough under his pull. He
ripped away long strips of the casing, bark and wood, and carried it
back to the shelter. He made a second trip to secure a great armful of
the powder-dry time-rotted core of the stump.

His third expedition carried him a little farther afield to a small
sapling which he could barely make out through the night. He bent down
the top of the little tree and snapped off about five feet of its
length. This in turn he brought to the shelter. He stopped short here,
frozen with amazement. The girl was raving in her delirium, and to
soothe her, McTee was singing to her horrible sailor chanteys, pieced
out with improvised and foolish words.

Harrigan listened only while his astonishment kept him helpless; then
he took up his work. He first stripped away the twigs from his sapling
top. Then he tied the twine firmly at either end of the stick, leaving
the string loose. Next he fumbled among the mass of rubbish he had
brought in from the rotten trunk and broke off a chunk of hard wood
several inches in length. By rubbing this against the fragment of the
wheelhouse, he managed to reduce one end of the little stick to a rough
point.

He took the largest slab of the rim wood from the stump and knelt upon
it to hold it firm. On this wood he rested his peg, which was wrapped
in several folds of the twine and pressed down by the second fragment
of wood. When he moved the long stick back and forth, the peg revolved
at a tremendous rate of speed, its partially sharpened end digging into
the wood on which it rested. It is a method of starting a fire which
was once familiarly used by Indians.

For half an hour Harrigan sweated and groaned uselessly over his labor.
Once he smelled a taint of smoke and shouted his triumph, but the peg
slipped and the work was undone. He started all over again after a
short rest and the peg creaked against the slab of wood with the speed
of its rotation--a small sound of protest drowned by the bellowing of
the storm and the ringing songs of McTee. Now the smoke rose again and
this time the peg kept firm. The smoke grew pungent; there was a spark,
then a glow, and it spread and widened among the powdery, rotten wood
which Harrigan had heaped around his rotating peg.

He tossed the peg and bow aside and blew softly and steadily on the
glowing point. It spread still more and now a small tongue of flame
rose and flickered. Instantly Harrigan laid small bits of wood
criss-cross on the pile of tinder. The flame licked at them
tentatively, recoiled, rose again and caught hold. The fire was well
started.

With gusts of wind fanning it roughly, the flame rose fast. Harrigan
made other journeys to the rotten stump and wrenched away great chunks
of bark and wood. He came back and piled them on the fire. It towered
high, the upper tongues twisting among the branches of the tree. They
laid Kate Malone between the windbreak and the fire. In a short time
her trembling ceased; she turned her face to the blaze and slept.

They watched her with jealous care all night. In lieu of a pillow they
heaped some of the wood dust from the stump beneath her head. When
their large hands hovered over her to straighten the clothes which the
wind fluttered, she seemed marvelously delicate and fragile. It was
astonishing that so fragile a creature should have lived through the
buffeting of the sea.

Toward morning the storm fell at a breath and the rain died away. They
agreed that it might be safe to leave her alone while they ventured out
to look for food, and at the first hint of light they started out, one
to the north, and one to the south. Harrigan started at an easy run. He
felt a joyous exultation like that of a boy eager for play. He tried to
find shellfish first, but without success. His search carried him far
down the beach to a group of big rocks rolling out to sea. On the
leeward side of these rocks, in little hollows of the stone, he found a
quantity of the eggs of some seafowl. They were quite large, the shells
a dirty, faint blue and apparently very thick. He collected all he
could carry and started back.

As he approached the shelter, he heard voices and stopped short with a
sudden pang; McTee had returned first and awakened the girl. Harrigan
sighed. He knew now how he had wanted to watch her eyes open for the
first time, the cool sea-green eyes lighted by bewilderment, surprise,
and joy. All that delight had been McTee's. It was that dark, handsome
face she had seen leaning over her when she awoke. He was firmly
implanted in her mind by this time as her savior. She opened her eyes,
hungered, and she had seen McTee bringing food. Harrigan drew a long
breath and went on slowly with lowered head.

They sat cross-legged, facing each other. The captain was showing Kate
his prizes, which seemed to consist of a quantity of shellfish. She
clapped her hands at something McTee said, and her laughter,
wonderfully clear, reminded Harrigan of the chiming of faraway church
bells. Blind anger suddenly possessed him as he stood by the fire
glowering down at them.




CHAPTER 11


"Eggs! How perfectly wonderful, Mr. Harrigan! And I'm starved!"

She looked up to him, radiant with delight; but the triumphant eye of
Harrigan fell not upon her but on McTee, who had suddenly grown
pensive.

"But how can we cook them? There's nothing to boil water in--and no pan
for frying them," ventured McTee.

"Roast 'em," said Harrigan scornfully. "Like this."

He wrapped several eggs in wet clay and placed them in the glowing
ashes of the fire which had now burned low.

"While they're cooking," said McTee, "I'm going off. I've an idea."

Harrigan watched him with a shade of suspicion while he retreated. He
turned his head to find Kate studying him gravely.

"Before you came, Mr. Harrigan--"

"My name's Dan. That'll save time."

"While you were gone," she went on, thanking him with a smile, "Captain
McTee told me a great many things about you."

Harrigan stirred uneasily.

"Among other things, that you had no such record as he hinted at while
we were on the _Mary Rogers_. So I have to ask you to forgive me--"

The blue eyes grew bright as he watched her.

"I've forgotten all that, for the sea washed it away from my mind."

"Really?"

"As clean as the wind has washed the sky."

Not a cloud stained the broad expanse from horizon to horizon.

"That's a beautiful way to put it. Now that we are here on the island,
we begin all over again and forget what happened on the ship?"

"Aye, all of it."

"Shake on it."

He took her hand, but so gingerly that she laughed.

"We have to be careful of you," he explained seriously. "Here we are,
as McTee puts it, on the rim of the world, two men an' one woman. If
something happens to one of us, a third of our population's gone."

"A third of our population! Then I'm very important?"

"You are."

He was so serious that it disconcerted her. It suddenly became
impossible for her to meet his eyes, they burned so bright, so eager,
with something like a threat in them. She hailed the returning figure
of McTee with relief.

He came bearing a large gourd, and he knelt before Kate so that she
might look into it. She cried out at what she saw, for he had washed
the inside of the gourd and filled it with cool water from the spring.

"Look!" said she to Harrigan. "It's water--and my throat is fairly
burning."

"Humph," growled Harrigan, and he avoided the eye of McTee.

The gourd was too heavy and clumsy for her to handle. The captain had
to raise and tip it so that she might drink, and as she drank, her eyes
went up to his with gratitude.

Harrigan set his teeth and commenced raking the roasted eggs from the
hot ashes. When her thirst was quenched, she looked in amazement at
Harrigan; even his back showed anger. In some mysterious manner it was
plain that she had displeased the big Irishman.

He turned now and offered her an egg, after removing the clay mold. But
when she thanked him with the most flattering of smiles, she became
aware that McTee in turn was vexed, while the Irishman seemed perfectly
happy again.

"Have an egg, McTee," he offered, and rolled a couple toward the big
captain.

"I will not. I never had a taste for eggs."

"Why, captain," murmured Kate, "you can't live on shellfish?"

"Humph! Can't I? Very nutritious, Kate, and very healthful. Have to be
careful what you eat in this climate. Those eggs, for instance. Can you
tell, Harrigan, whether or not they're fresh?"

Harrigan, his mouth full of egg, paused and glared at the captain.

"For the captain of a ship, McTee," he said coldly, "your head is
packed with fool ideas. Eat your fish an' don't spoil the appetites of
others."

He turned to Kate.

"These eggs are new-laid--they're--they're not more than twenty-four
hours old."

His glance dared McTee to doubt the statement. The captain accepted the
challenge.

"I suppose you watched 'em being laid, Harrigan?"

Harrigan sneered.

"I can tell by the taste partly and partly"--here he cracked the shell
of another egg and, stripping it off, held up the little white oval to
the light--"and partly by the color. It's dead white, isn't it?"

"Yes."

"That shows it's fresh. If there was a bit of blue in it, it'd be
stale."

McTee breathed hard.

"You win," he said. "You ought to be on the stage, Harrigan."

But Harrigan was deep in another egg. Kate watched the two with covert
glances, amazed, wondering. They had saved each other from death at
sea, and now they were quarreling bitterly over the qualities of eggs.

And not eggs alone, for McTee, not to be outdone in courtesy, passed a
handful of his shellfish to Harrigan. The Irishman regarded the fish
and then McTee with cold disgust.

"D'you really think I'm crazy enough to eat one of these?" he queried.

Black McTee was black indeed as he glowered at the big Irishman.

"Open up; let's hear what you got to say about these shellfish," he
demanded.

Harrigan announced laconically: "Scurvy."

"What?" This from Kate and McTee at one breath.

"Sure. There ain't any salt in 'em. No salt is as bad as too much salt.
A friend of mine was once in a place where he couldn't get any salt
food, an' he ate a lot of these shellfish. What was the result? Scurvy!
He hasn't a tooth in his head today. An' he's only thirty."

"Why didn't you tell me?" cried Kate indignantly, and she laid a
tentative finger against her white teeth, as if expecting to find them
loose.

"I didn't want to hurt McTee's feelin's. Besides, maybe a few of them
won't hurt you--much!"

McTee suddenly burst into laughter, but there was little mirth in the
sound.

"Maybe you know these are the great blue clams that are famous for
their salt."

"Really?" said Kate, greatly relieved.

"Yes," went on McTee, his eyes wandering slightly. "This species of
clam has an unusual organ by which it extracts some of the salt from
the sea water while taking its food. Look here!"

He held up a shell and indicated a blue-green spot on the inside.

"You see that color? That's what gives these clams their name and this
is also the place where the salt deposit forms. This clam has a high
percentage of salt--more than any other."

Harrigan, sending a bitter side glance at McTee, rose to bring some
more wood, for it was imperative that they should keep the fire burning
always.

"I'm so glad," said Kate, "that we have both the eggs and the clams to
rely on. At least they will keep us from starving in this terrible
place."

"H'm. I'm not so sure about the eggs."

He eyed them with a watering mouth, for his raging hunger had not been
in the least appeased by the shellfish.

"But I'll try one just to keep you company."

He peeled away the shell and swallowed the egg hastily, lest Harrigan,
returning, should see that he had changed his mind.

"Maybe the eggs are all right," he admitted as soon as he could speak,
and he picked up another, "but between you and me, I'll confess that I
shall not pay much attention to what Harrigan has to say. He's never
been to sea before. You can't expect a landlubber to understand all the
conditions of a life like this."

But a new thought which was gradually forming in her brain made Kate
reserve judgment. Harrigan came back and placed a few more sticks of
wood on the fire.

"I can't understand," said Kate, "how you could make a fire without a
sign of a match."

"That's simple," said McTee easily. "When a man has traveled about as
much as I have, he has to pick up all sorts of unusual ways of doing
things. The way we made that fire was to--"

"The way _we_ made it?" interjected Harrigan with bitter emphasis.

Kate frowned as she glanced from one to the other. There was the same
deep hostility in their eyes which she had noticed when they faced each
other in the captain's cabin aboard the _Mary Rogers_.

"An' why were ye sittin' prayin' for fire with the gir-rl thremblin'
and freezin' to death in yer ar-rms if ye knew so well how to be makin'
one?"

"Hush--Dan," said Kate; for the fire of anger blew high.

McTee started.

"You know each other pretty well, eh?"

"Tut, tut!" said Harrigan airily. "You can't expect a slip of a girl to
be calling a black man like _you_ by the front name?"

McTee moistened his white lips. He rose.

"I'm going for a walk--I always do after eating."

And he strode off down the beach. Harrigan instantly secured a handful
of the shellfish.

"Speakin' of salt," he said apologetically, "I'll have to try a couple
of these to be sure that the captain's right. I can tell by a taste or
two."

He pried open one of the shells and ate the contents hastily, keeping
one eye askance against the return of McTee.

"Maybe he's right about these shellfish," he pronounced judicially,
"but it's a hard thing an' a dangerous thing to take the word of a man
like McTee--he's that hasty. We must go easy on believin' what he says,
Kate."




CHAPTER 12


Then understanding flooded Kate's mind like waves of light in a dark
room. She tilted back her head and laughed, laughed heartily, laughed
till the tears brimmed her eyes. The gloomy scowl of Harrigan stopped
her at last. As her mirth died out, the tall form of McTee appeared
suddenly before them with his arms crossed. Where they touched his
breast, the muscles spread out to a giant size. He was turned toward
her, but the gleam of his eye fell full upon Harrigan.

"I suppose," said McTee, and his teeth clicked after each word like the
bolt of a rifle shot home, "I suppose that you were laughing at me?"

The Irishman rose and faced the Scotchman, his head thrust forward and
a devil in his eyes.

"An' what if we were, Misther McTee?" he purred. "An' what if we
wer-r-re, I'm askin'?"

Kate leaped to her feet and sprang between them.

"Is there anything we can do," she broke in hurriedly, "to get away
from the island?"

"A raft?" suggested Harrigan.

McTee smiled his contempt.

"A raft? And how would you cut down the trees to make it?"

"Burn 'em down with a circle of fire at the bottom."

"And then set green logs afloat? And how fasten 'em together, even
supposing we could burn them down and drag them to the water? No,
there's no way of getting off the island unless a boat passes and
catches a glimpse of our fire."

"Then we'll have to move this fire to the top of the hill," said
Harrigan.

"Suppose we go now and look over the hill and see what dry wood is near
it," said McTee.

"Good."

Something in their eagerness had a meaning for Kate.

"Would you both leave me?" she reproached them.

"It was McTee suggested it," said Harrigan.

McTee favored his comrade with a glance that would have made any other
man give ground. It merely made Harrigan grin.

"We'll draw straws for who goes and who stays," said McTee.

Kate picked up two bits of wood.

"The short one stays," she said.

"Draw," said Harrigan in a low voice.

"I was taught manners young," said McTee. "After you."

They exchanged glares again. The whole sense of her power over these
giants came home to her as she watched them fighting their duel of the
eyes.

"You suggested it," she said to McTee.

He stepped forward with an expression as grim as that of a prize
fighter facing an antagonist of unknown prowess. Once and again his
hand hovered above the sticks before he drew.

"You've chosen the walk to the hill," she said, and showed the shorter
stick. "Do you mind?"

"No," mocked Harrigan, "he always walks after meals."

Their eyes dwelt almost fondly upon each other. They were both men
after the other's heart. Then the Scotchman turned and strode away.

Kate watched Harrigan suspiciously, but his eyes, following McTee, were
gentle and dreamy.

"Ah," he murmured, "there's a jewel of a man."

"Do you like him so much?"

"Do I like him? Me dear, I love the man; I'll break his head with more
joy than a shtarvin' man cracks a nut!"

He recovered himself instantly.

"I didn't mean that--I--"

"Dan, you and McTee have planned to fight!"

He growled: "If a man told me that, I'd say he was a liar."

"Yes; but you won't lie to a girl, Harrigan."

She rose and faced him, reaching up to lay her hands on his thick
shoulders.

"Will you give me your promise as an honest man to try to avoid a fight
with him?"

For she saw death in it if they met alone; certainly death for one, and
perhaps for both.

"Kate, would you ask a tree to promise to avoid the lightning?"

She caught a little breath through set teeth in her angry impatience,
then: "Dan, you're like a naughty boy. Can't you be reasonable?"

Despite her wrath, she noticed a quick change in his face. The blue of
his eyes was no longer cold and incurious, but lighted, warm, and
marvelously deep.

And she said rapidly, making her voice cold to quell the uneasy, rising
fire behind his eyes: "If you have made McTee angry, aren't you man
enough to smooth things over--to ask his pardon?"

He answered vaguely: "Beg his pardon?"

"Why is that so impossible? For my sake, Dan!"

The light went out of his face as if a candle had been snuffed.

"For you, Kate?"

Then she understood her power fully for the first time, and found the
thing which she must do.

"For me. I--I--"

She let her head droop, and then glanced up as if beseeching him to ask
no questions.

"Look me square in the eye--so!"

He caught her beneath the chin with a grip that threatened a bruise,
and his eyes burned down upon her.

"Are ye playin' with me, Kate? Are ye tryin' to torment me, or do ye
really care for McTee?"

She tried with all her might, but could not answer. The rumble and ring
of his voice brought her heart to her throat.

"You're tremblin'," said Harrigan, and he released her. "So it's all
true. McTee!"

He turned on his heel like a soldier, lest she should mark the change
of his expression; but she must have noticed something, for she called:
"Harrigan--Dan!"

He stopped, but would not face her.

"You have your hands clenched. Are you going out to hunt for McTee in
that black mood?"

"Kate," said Harrigan, "by my honor I'm swearin' he's as safe in my
hands as a child."




CHAPTER 13


Harrigan strode off through the trees. To loosen the tight, aching
muscles of his throat he began to sing--old Irish songs with a wail and
a swing to them. He had taken no certain direction, for he only wished
to be alone and far away from the other two; but after a time he
realized that he was on the side of the central hill to which McTee had
gone to look for the dry wood. Above all things in the world he wished
to avoid the Scotchman now, and as soon as he became conscious of his
whereabouts, he veered sharply to the right. He had scarcely walked a
minute in the new direction before he met McTee. The latter had seen
him first, and now stood with braced feet in his position of battle,
rolling the sleeves of his shirt away from his forearms. Harrigan
stepped behind a tree.

"Come out," roared McTee. "I've seen you. Don't try to sneak behind and
take me from the back."

With an exceeding bitterness of heart, Harrigan stepped into view
again.

"You look sick," went on McTee. "If you knew what would happen when we
met, why did you come? If you fear me, go back and hug the skirts of
the girl. She'll take pity on you, Harrigan."

The Irishman groaned. "Think your thoughts an' say your say, McTee. I
can't lay a hand on you today."

The latter stepped close, stupefied with wonder.

"Do I hear you right? Are you taking water, Harrigan?"

Harrigan bowed his head, praying mutely for strength to endure.

"Don't say it!" pleaded McTee. "I've hunted the world and worn the
roads bare looking for one man who could stand up to me--and now that
I've found him, he turns yellow inside!"

And he looked upon the Irishman with a sick horror, as if the big
fellow were turning into a reptile before his eyes. On the face of
Harrigan there was an expression like that of the starving man whom the
fear of poison induces to push away food.

"There's no word I can speak to you, McTee. You could never understand.
Go back to the girl. Maybe she'll explain."

"The girl?"

At the wild hope in that voice Harrigan shuddered, and he could not
look up.

"Harrigan, what do you mean?"

"Don't ask me. Leave me alone, McTee."

"Here's a mystery," said the Scotchman, "and our little party is
postponed. The date is changed, that's all. Remember!"

He stepped off through the trees in the direction of the shelter on the
beach, leaving Harrigan to throw himself upon the ground in a paroxysm
of shame and hate.

But McTee, with hope to spur him on--a vague hope; a thought half
formed and therefore doubly delightful--went with great strides until
he came to Kate where she sat tending the fire. He broke at once into
the heart of his question.

"I met Harrigan. He's changed. Something has happened. Tell me what it
is. He says you know."

He crouched close to her, intent and eager, his eyes ready to read a
thousand meanings into the very lowering of her lashes; but she let her
glance rove past him.

"Well?" he asked impatiently.

"It is hard to speak of it."

Cold doubt fell upon the captain; he moistened his lips before he
spoke.

"Hit straight from the shoulder. There's something between you and the
Irishman?"

She dropped a hand over his mighty fist.

"After all, you are our only friend, Angus. Why shouldn't you know?"

He stood up and made a few paces to and fro, his hands locked behind
him and his leonine head fallen low.

"Yes, why shouldn't you tell me! I think I understand already."

All desire to laugh went from her, and deep fear took its place; her
eyes were held fascinated upon his interlaced fingers, white under
their own terrific pressure; yet she understood that she must go on. If
she failed, this mighty force would be turned against Harrigan; and
Harrigan, not less grim in battle, as she could guess, would be turned
against him.

She said quickly, to conceal her fear: "I thought there was some
trouble between you and Dan. I asked him to promise that he would not
fight with you. But I don't need to ask you to promise not to fight
with him, for now that you know--"

He leaped up and beat his hands together over his head.

"And that was why! I taunted him and all the time he was laughing to
himself!"

He stopped and then whispered to himself: "Still, it's only postponed.
The tune will come! The time will come!"

She understood the promise.

"Angus! What are you saying?"

He said quietly: "Harrigan's safe from me while you care for him. Do
you think I'm fool enough to make a martyr of him? Not I! But when we
get back to the world--"

He finished the sentence by slowly flexing his fingers.

"I love you, Kate, and until the strength goes out of my hands, I'll
still love you. I want you; and what I want I get. You'll hate me for
it, eh?"

He went off without waiting for an answer, stumbling as he walked like
one who was dazed. Her strength held with her until he was out of sight
among the trees, but then she sank to the ground, panting. Sooner or
later they were sure to discover her ruse, and the moment one of them
learned that she did not love the other, they would rush into battle.
She only prayed that the discovery would not come till they were safely
off the island. Once back in the world the strong arm of the law might
suffice to keep them apart.

The falling of the fire roused her at last and she set about gathering
wood to keep it alive. It was the Irishman who returned first. He waved
her to the shade of the shelter and finished collecting the wood.




CHAPTER 14


Afterward he inquired, frowning: "Where's McTee? I met him an' he
started back to find you."

"He's gone off with his thoughts, Dan."

Harrigan sighed, looking up to the stainless blue of the sky: "Aye,
that's the way of the Scotch. When they're happy in love, they go off
by themselves an' brood like a dog that's thinking of a fight. But were
I he, I'd never be leavin' your side, colleen."

His head tilted back in the way she had come to know, and she waited
for the soft dialect: "I'd be singin' songs av love an' war-r-r, an'
braggin' me hear-rt out, an' talkin' av the sea-green av your eyes,
colleen. Look at him now!"

For the great form of McTee left the circle of the trees and approached
them.

"He's got his head down between his shoulders like a whipped cur. He's
broodin', an' his soul is thick in a fog."

"Dan, I trust you to cheer him up; but you'll not speak of me?"

"Not I. He's a proud man, Black McTee, an' he'd be angered to the core
of him if he thought you'd talked about him an' his love to Harrigan.
Whisht, Kate, I'll handle him like fire!

"The wood," he began, as McTee came in. "Did you find it on top of the
hill, lad?"

McTee rumbled after a pause, and without looking at Harrigan: "There's
plenty of it there. I made a little heap of the driest on the crown of
the hill."

"Then the next thing is to move our fire up there."

"Move our fire?" cried Kate. "How can you carry the fire?"

"Easy. Take two pieces of burnin' wood an' walk along holdin' them
close together. That way they burn each other an' the flame keeps
goin'. Watch!"

He selected two good-sized brands from the fire and raised them,
holding one in either hand and keeping the ignited portions of the
sticks together. McTee looked from Kate to Harrigan.

"Sit down and talk to Kate. I'll carry the sticks; I know where the
pile of timber is."

Harrigan made a significant and covert nod and winked at McTee with
infinite understanding.

"Stay here yourself, lad. I wouldn't be robbing you----"

Kate coughed for warning, and he broke off sharply.

"You've made one trip to the hill. This is my turn. Besides, you
wouldn't know how to keep the stick burnin'. I've done it before."

McTee stared, agape with astonishment. The meaning of that wink still
puzzled his brain. He turned to Kate for explanation, and she beckoned
him to stay. When Harrigan disappeared, he said: "What's the meaning?
Doesn't Harrigan want to be with you?"

She allowed her eyes to wander dreamily after Harrigan.

"Don't you see? He's like a big boy. He's overflowing with happiness
and he has to go off to play by himself."

McTee watched her with deep suspicion.

"It's queer," he pondered. "I know the Irish like a book, and when
they're in love, they're always singing and shouting and raising the
devil. It looked to me as if Harrigan was making himself be cheerful."

He went on: "I'll take him aside and tell him that I understand.
Otherwise he'll think he's fooling me."

"Please! You won't do that? Angus, you know how proud he is! He will be
furious if he finds out that I've spoken to you about--about--our love.
Won't you wait until he tells you of his own accord?"

He ground his teeth in an ugly fury.

"You understand? If I find you've been playing with me, it'll mean
death for Harrigan, and worse than that for you?"

She made her glance sad and gentle.

"Will you never trust me, Angus?"

He answered, with a sort of wonder at himself: "Since I was a child,
you are the first person in the world who has had the right to call me
by my first name."

"Not a single woman?" and she shivered.

"Not one."

She pondered: "No love, no friendship, not even pity to bring you close
to a single human being all your life?"

"No child has ever come near me, for I've never had room for pity. No
man has been my friend, for I've spent my time fighting them and
breaking them. And I've despised women too much to love them."

The tears rose to her eyes as she spoke: "I pity you from the bottom of
my soul!"

"Pity? Me? By God, Kate, you'll teach me to hate you!"

"I can't help it. Why, if you have never loved, you have never lived!"

"You talk like a girl in a Sunday school! Ha, have I never lived? Men
were made strong so that a stronger man should be their master; and
women--"

"And women, Angus?"

"All women are fools; one woman is divine!"

The yearning of his eyes gave a bitter meaning to his words, and she
was shaken like a leaf blown here and there by contrary winds.
Unheeded, the sudden tropic night swooped upon them like the shadow of
a giant bird, and as the dark increased, they saw the glimmering of the
fire upon the hill. She rose, and he followed her until they reached
the upward slope.

Then he said: "You will want to be alone with him for a time. Can you
find the rest of the way?"

"Yes. You'll come soon?"

"I'll come soon, but I have to be by myself for a while. I may hate you
for it afterward, but now I'm weak and soft inside--like a child--and I
only wish for your happiness."

"God bless you, Angus!"

"God help me," he answered harshly, and stepped into the blank night of
the shadow of the trees.

Harrigan shook his head in wonder when he saw her coming alone. He had
built up the fire and heaped fresh fuel in towering piles nearby. The
flames shot up twenty and thirty feet, making a wide signal across the
sea.

"He's gone off by himself again?" questioned the Irishman.

She complained: "I can't understand him. Will he be always like this?
What shall I do, Dan?"

He met her appeal with a smile, but the blue eyes went cold at once and
he sighed. It would never do to have the two sitting silent beside that
fire. The brooding of McTee would excite no suspicions in the mind of
Harrigan, but the quiet of the Irishman would be sure to excite the
suspicions of the other.

"Will you do something for me, Dan?"

He looked up with a whimsical yearning.

"Teach McTee manners? Aye, with all me heart!"

She laughed: "No; but cheer him up. You said that if you were in his
place, you'd be singing all the time."

"And I would."

"Then sing for me--for Angus and me--tonight when we're sitting by the
fire. He's fallen into a brooding melancholy, and I can't altogether
trust him. Can you understand?"

"And I'm to do the cheering up?"

"You won't fail me?"

He turned and occupied himself for a moment by hurling great armfuls of
wood upon the fire. The flames burst up with showering sparks, roaring
and leaping. Then, as if inspired by the sight, he came to her with his
head tilting back in the way he had.

"I'll do it--I'll sing my heart out for you."

As McTee came up, the three sat down; a strange group, for the two men
stared fixedly before them at the fire, conscientiously avoiding any
movement of the eyes toward Kate and the other; and she sat between
them, watching each of them covertly and humming all the while as if
from happiness. Each of them thought the humming a love song meant for
the ears of the other. Finally McTee turned and stared curiously, first
at Kate and then at Harrigan. Manifestly he could not understand either
their silence or their aloofness. It was for the Scotchman that she
would have to play her role; Harrigan was blind. The Irishman also, as
if he felt the eyes of McTee, turned his head. Kate nodded
significantly and moved closer to him.

Obedient to his promise, he turned away again and raised his head to
sing. Alternate light and shadow swept across his face and made fire
and dark in his hair as the wind tossed the flame back and forth. At
the other side of her McTee rested upon one elbow. Whenever she turned
her head, she caught the steel-cold glitter of his eyes.

The first note from Harrigan's lips was low and faltering and off key;
she trembled lest McTee should understand, but the Scotchman attributed
the emotion to another cause. As his singing continued, moreover, it
increased in power and steadiness. One thing, however, she had not
counted on, and that was the emotion of Harrigan. Every one of his
songs carried on the theme of love in a greater or less degree, and now
his own singing swept him beyond the bounds of caution; he turned
directly to Kate and sang for her alone "Kathleen Mavourneen." There
was love and farewell at once in his singing, there was yearning and
despair.

She knew that a crisis had come, and that McTee was pressed to the
limits of his endurance. The game had gone too far, and yet she dared
not appear indifferent to the singing. That would have been too direct
a betrayal, so she sat with her head back and a smile on her lips.

There was a groan and a stifled curse. McTee rose; the song died in the
throat of Harrigan.




CHAPTER 15


"Is this what you feared?" said the Scotchman. "Is this what you wanted
protection against? No; you're in league together to torture me, and
all this time you've been laughing up your sleeves at my expense!"

"At your expense?" growled Harrigan, rising in turn. "Is it at your
expense that I've been sittin' here breakin' me heart with singin' love
tunes for you an' the girl?"

She sprang up in an agony of fear.

"Go! Go!" she begged of McTee. "If you doubt me, go, and when you come
back calm, I will explain."

He brushed her to one side and made a step toward Harrigan.

"Love songs for _me?_" he repeated incredulously.

"Aye, love songs for you. Ye black swine, ye could not be happy till I
was brought in to be the piper while you an' Kate danced!"

"While I and Kate danced?" thundered McTee. "My God, man--"

He broke off short, and a cruel light of understanding was in his eyes.

"Harrigan," he said quietly, "did Kate tell you she loved me?"

"Ye fool! Why else am I sittin' here singin' for your sake? Would I not
rather be amusin' myself by takin' the hollow of your throat under my
thumbs--so?"

McTee laughed softly, and Kate could not meet his eye.

"Well?" he said.

"Yes, I lied to you."

She turned to Harrigan: "And to you. Don't you see? I found you on the
verge of a fight, and I knew that in it you would both be killed. What
else could I do? I hoped that for my sake you would spare each other.
Was it wrong of me, Dan? Angus, will you forgive me?"

Harrigan raised his arms high above his head and stretched like one
from whose wrists the manacles have been unlocked after a long
imprisonment.

"McTee, are ye ready? There's a weight gone off my
soul!"

"Harrigan, I've been a driver of men, but this girl has put me under
the whip. When I'm through with you, I'm coming back to her."

"It'll be your ghost that returns."

Kate hesitated one instant as if to judge which was the greatest force
toward evil. Then she dropped to her knees and caught the hands of
McTee, those strong, cruel hands.

"If you will not fight, I'll--I'll be kind to you, I'll be everything
you ask of me--"

"You're pleading for him?"

"No, no! For him and for you; for your two souls!"

"Bah! Mine was lost long ago, and I'll answer that there's a claim on
Harrigan filed away in hell. He's too strong to have lived clean."

"Angus, we're all alone here--on the rim of the world, you've said--and
in places like this the eye of God is on you."

He laughed brutally: "If He sees me, He'll look the other way."

"Have done with the chatter," broke in Harrigan. "Ah-h, McTee, I see
where my hands'll fit on your throat."

"Come," McTee answered without raising his voice; "there's a corner of
the beach where a current stands in close by the shore. You've been a
traveling man, Harrigan. When I've killed you, I'll throw your body
into the sea, and the tide will take you out to see the rest of the
world."

"Come," said Harrigan; "I'd as soon finish you there as here, and when
you're dead, I'll sit you up against a tree and come down every day to
watch you rot."

The girl fell to the ground between them with her face buried in her
arms, silent. The two men lowered their eyes for a moment upon her, and
then turned and walked down the hill, going shoulder to shoulder like
friends. So they came out upon the beach and walked along it until they
reached the point of which McTee had spoken.

It was a level, hard-packed stretch of sand which offered firm footing
and no rocks over which one of the fighters might stumble at a critical
moment.

"Tis a lovely spot," sighed Harrigan. "Captain, you're a jewel of a man
to have thought of it."

"Aye, this is no deck at sea that can heave and twist and spoil my
work."

"It is not; and the palms of my hands are almost healed. Had you
thought of that, captain?"

"As you lie choking, Harrigan, think of the girl. The minute I've
heaved you into the sea, I go back to her."

The hard breathing of the Irishman filled up the interval.

"I see one thing clear. It's that I'll have to kill you slow. A man
like you, McTee, ought to taste his death a while before it comes. Come
to me ar-rms, captain, I've a little secret to whisper in your ear.
Whisht! 'Twill not be long in the tellin'!"

McTee replied with a snarl, and the two commenced to circle slowly,
drawing nearer at every step. On the very edge of leaping forward,
Harrigan was astonished to see McTee straighten from his crouch and
point out to sea.

"The eye of God!" muttered the Scotchman. "She was right!"

Harrigan jumped back lest this should prove a maneuver to place him off
his guard, and then looked in the indicated direction. It was true; a
point of light, a white eye, peered at them from far across the water.
Then the shout of McTee rang joyously: "A ship!"

"The fire!" answered Harrigan, and pointed back to the hill, for Kate
had allowed the flames to fall in their absence.

All thought of the battle left them. They started back on the run to
build high their signal light, and when they came to the top of the
hill, they found Kate lying as they had left her. She started to her
knees at the sound of their footsteps and stretched out her arms to
them.

"God has sent you back to me!"

"A ship!" thundered McTee for answer, and he flung a great armful of
wood upon the blaze. It rose with a rush, leaping and crackling, but
all three kept at their work until the pile of wood was higher than
their heads. Only when the supply of dry fuel was exhausted did they
pause to look out to sea. In place of the one eye of white there were
three lights, one of white, one of red, and one of green--the lights of
a ship running in toward land.

In a moment the moon slipped up above the eastern waters, and right
across that broad white circle moved a ship with the smoke streaming
back from her funnel. Unquestionably the captain had seen the signal
fire and understood its meaning.

They waited until the red light became fairly stationary, showing that
the steamer had been laid-to. Then they ran for the beach and took up
their position on the line between the glow of their fire and the
position of the ship, guessing that in this way they would be on the
spot where the ship's boat would be most likely to touch the shore.

"McTee," said Harrigan, "it may be half an hour before that boat
reaches the beach. Is there any reason why both of us should go aboard
it?"

"Harrigan, there is none! Stand up to me."

"If you do this," broke in Kate, "I will bring the sailors who come
ashore to the spot where the dead man lies, and I'll tell how he died."

They looked at her, knowing that she could be trusted to fulfill that
threat. The moon lay on the beauty of her face; never had she seemed so
desirable. They looked to each other, and each seemed doubly hateful to
the other.

"Kate, dear," said Harrigan hastily, "I see the boat come tossin' there
over the water. Speak out like a brave girl. Neither of us will leave
the other in peace as long as we have a hope of you. Choose between us
before we put a foot in that boat, and if you choose McTee, I'll give
you God's blessin' an' say no more nor ever raise my hand against ye.
McTee, will ye do the like?"

"For the sake of the day of the fight and the wreck I will. If she
chooses you now, I'll raise no hand against you."

A shout came faintly across the rush and ripple of the breakers.

"Speak out," said Harrigan.

"Hallo!" she screamed in answer to the hail from the boat, and then
turning to them: "I choose neither of you!"

"McTee," growled Harrigan, "I'm thinkin' we've both been fools."

"Think what you will, I'll have her; and if you cross me again, I'll
finish you, Harrigan."

"McTee, ten of your like couldn't finish me. But look! There's the girl
wadin' out to the boat. Let's steady her through the waves."

They ran out and, catching her beneath the shoulders, bore her safe and
high through the small rollers. When they were waist-deep, the boat
swung near. A lantern was raised by the man in the bows, and under that
light they saw the four men at the oars, now backing water to keep
their boat from washing to the beach. The sailors cheered as the two
men swung Kate over the gunwale and then clambered in after her. The
man at the bows all this time had kept his lantern high above his head
with a rigid arm, and now he bellowed: "Black McTee!"

"Right!" said McTee. "And you?"

"Salvain--put back for the ship, lads--Pietro Salvain. D'you mean to
say you've forgotten me?"

"Shanghai!" said McTee, as light broke on his memory. "What a night
that was."

"But you--"

"The _Mary Rogers_ took a header for Davy Jones's locker; first mate
drunk and ran her on a reef; all hands went under except the three of
us; we drifted to this island."

"Black McTee shipwrecked! By God, if we get to port with our old tramp,
I'll get a farm and stick to dry land."

"Your ship?"

"The _Heron_, four thousand tons, White Henshaw, skipper."

"White Henshaw?" cried McTee in almost reverent tones.

"The same. Old White still sticks to his wheel. He's as hard a man as
you, McTee, in his own way."

They were pulling close to the freighter by this time, and Salvain gave
quick orders to lay the boat alongside. In another moment they stood on
the deck, where a tall man in white clothes advanced to meet them.

"Good fishing, sir," said Salvain. "We've picked up three shipwrecked
people, with Angus McTee among them."

"Black McTee!" cried the other, and even in the dim light he picked out
the towering form of the Scotchman.

"It took a wreck to bring us together, Captain Henshaw," said McTee,
"but here we are, I've combed the South Seas for ten years for the sake
of meeting you."

"H-m!" grunted Henshaw. "We'll drink on the strength of that. Come into
the cabin."

They trooped after him, Salvain and the three rescued, and stood in the
roomy cabin, the captain and the first mate dapper and cool in their
white uniforms, the other three marvelously ragged. Barefooted, their
hair falling in jags across their foreheads, their muscles bulging
through the rents in their shirts, McTee and Harrigan looked battered
but triumphant. Kate Malone might have been the prize which they had
safely carried away. She was even more ragged than her companions, and
now she withdrew into a shadowy corner of the cabin and shook the long,
loose masses of her hair about her shoulders.




CHAPTER 16


The dark eye of Pietro Salvain was quick to note her condition. He was
a rather small, lean-faced man with the skin drawn so tightly across
his high cheekbones that it glistened. He was emaciated; his energy
consumed him as hunger consumes other men.

"There is a berth for me below," he said to Kate. "You must take my
room. And I have a cap, some silk shirts, a loose coat which you might
wear--so?"

"This is Miss Malone, Salvain," said McTee before she could answer.

"You are very kind, Mr. Salvain," she said.

He smiled and bowed very low, and then opened the door for her; but all
the while his glance was upon McTee, who stared at him so significantly
that before following Kate through the door, Salvain shrugged his
shoulders and made a gesture of resignation.

The captain turned to Harrigan. Henshaw was very old. He was always so
erect and carried his chin so high that the loose skin of his throat
hung in two sharp ridges. In spite of the tight-lipped mouth, the
beaklike nose, and the small, gleaming eyes, there was something about
his face which intensified his age. Perhaps it was the yellow skin, dry
as the parchment from an Egyptian tomb and criss-crossed by a myriad
little wrinkles.

"And you, sir?" he said to the Irishman.

"One of my crew," broke in McTee carelessly. "He'll be quite contented
in the forecastle. Eh, Harrigan?"

"Quite," said Harrigan, and his glance acknowledged the state of war.

"Then if you'll go forward, Harrigan," said the captain, and his voice
was dry and dead as his skin--"if you'll go forward and report to the
bos'n, he'll see that you have a bunk."

"Thank you, sir," murmured Harrigan, and slipped from the room on his
bare feet.

"That man," stated Henshaw, "is as strong as you are, McTee, and yet
they call you the huskiest sailor of the South Seas."

"He is almost as strong," answered McTee with a certain emphasis.

Something like a smile appeared in the eyes of Henshaw, but did not
disturb the fixed lines of his mouth. For a moment Henshaw and McTee
measured each other.

The Scotchman spoke first: "Captain, you're as keen as the stories they
tell of you."

"And you're as hard, McTee."

The latter waved the somewhat dubious compliment away.

"I was breaking that fellow, and he held out longer than any man I've
ever handled. The shipwreck interrupted me, or I would have finished
what I started."

"You'd like to have me finish what you began?"

"You read my mind."

"Discipline is a great thing."

"Absolutely necessary at sea."

Henshaw answered coldly: "There's no need for us to act the hypocrite,
eh?"

McTee hesitated, and then grinned: "Not a bit. I know what you did
twenty years ago in the Solomons."

"And I know the story of you and the pearl divers."

"That's enough."

"Quite."

"And Harrigan?"

"As a favor to you, McTee, I'll break him. Maybe you'll be interested
in my methods."

"Try mine first. I made him scrub down the bridge with suds every
morning, and while his hands were puffed and soft, I sent him down to
the fireroom to pass coal."

"He'll kill you someday."

"If he can."

They smiled strangely at each other.

A knock came at the door, and Salvain entered, radiant.

"She is divine!" he cried. "Her hair is old copper with golden lights.
McTee, if she is yours, you have found another Venus!"

"If she is not mine," answered McTee, "at least she belongs to no other
man."

Salvain studied him, first with eagerness, then with doubt, and last of
all with despair.

"If any other man said that I would question it--so!--with my life. But
McTee? No, I love life too well!"

"Now," Henshaw said to Salvain, "Captain McTee and I have business to
talk."

"Aye, sir," said Salvain.

"One minute, Salvain," broke in McTee. "I haven't thanked you in the
girl's name for taking care of Miss Malone."

The first mate paused at the door.

"I begin to wonder, captain," he answered, "whether or not you have the
right to thank me in her name!"

He disappeared through the door without waiting for an answer.

"Salvain has forgotten me," muttered McTee, balling his fist, "but I'll
freshen his memory."

He flushed as he became aware of the cold eye of Henshaw upon him.

"Even Samson fell," said the old man. "But she hasn't cut your hair
yet, McTee?"

"What the devil do you mean?"

Henshaw silently poured another drink and passed it to the Scotchman.
The latter gripped the glass hard and tossed off the drink with a
single gesture. At once his eyes came back to Henshaw's face with the
fierce question. He was astonished to note kindliness in the answering
gaze.

Old Henshaw said gently: "Tut, tut! You're a proper man, McTee, and a
proper man has always the thought of some woman tucked away in his
heart. Look at me! For almost sixty years I've been the King of the
South Seas!"

At the thought of his glories his face altered, as soldiers change when
they receive the order to charge.

"You're a rare man and a bold man, McTee, but you'll never be what
White Henshaw has been--the Shark of the Sea! Ha! Yet think of it! Ten
years ago, after all my harvesting of the sea, I had not a dollar to
show for it! Why? Because I was working for no woman. But here I am
sailing home from my last voyage--rich! And why? Because for ten years
I've been working for a woman. For ourselves we make and we spend. But
for a woman we make and we save. Aye!"

"For a woman?" repeated McTee, wondering. "Do you mean to say--"

"Tut, man, it's my granddaughter. Look!"

Perhaps the whisky had loosened the old man's tongue; perhaps these
confidences were merely a tribute to the name and fame of McTee; but
whatever was the reason, McTee knew he was hearing things which had
never been spoken before. Now Henshaw produced a leather wallet from
which he selected two pictures, and handed one to the Scotchman. It
showed a little girl of some ten years with her hair braided down her
back. McTee looked his question.

"That picture was sent to me by my son ten years ago."

It showed the effect of time and rough usage. The edges of the cheap
portrait were yellow and cracked.

"He was worthless, that son of mine. So I shut him out of my mind until
I got a letter saying he was about to die and giving his daughter into
my hands. That picture was in the letter. Ah, McTee, how I pored over
it! For, you see, I saw the face of my wife in the face of the little
girl, Beatrice. She had come back to life in the second generation. I
suppose that happens sometimes.

"I made up my mind that night to make a fortune for little Beatrice.
First I sold my name and honor to get a half share and captaincy of a
small tramp freighter. Then I went to the Solomon Islands. You know
what I did there? Yes, the South Seas rang with it. It was brutal, but
it brought me money.

"I sent enough of that money to the States to keep the girl in luxury.
The rest of it I put back into my trading ventures. I got a larger
boat. I did unheard-of things; and everything I touched turned into
gold. All into gold!

"From time to time I got letters from Beatrice. First they were careful
scrawls which said nothing. Then the handwriting grew more fluent. It
alarmed me to notice the growth of her mind; I was afraid that when I
finally saw her, she would see in me only a barbarian. So I educated
myself in odd hours. I've read a book while a hurricane was standing my
ship on her beam ends."

McTee, leaning forward with a frown of almost painful interest,
understood. He saw it in the wild light of the old man's eyes; a
species of insanity, this love of the old man for the child he had
never seen.

"Notice my language now? Never a taint of the beach lingo in it. I
rubbed all that out. Aye, McTee, it took me ten years to educate myself
for that girl's sake. In the meantime, I made money, as I've said. Ten
years of that!

"Beatrice was in college, and six months ago I got the word that she
had graduated. A month later I heard that she was going into a decline.
It was nothing very serious, but the doctors feared for the strength of
her lungs. It made me glad. Now I knew that she would need me. An old
man is like a woman, McTee; he needs to have things dependent on him.

"I turned everything I had into cash. I did it so hurriedly that I must
have lost close to twenty per cent on the forced sales. What did I
care? I had enough, and I made myself into a grandfather who could meet
Beatrice's educated friends on their own level.

"I kept this old ship, the _Heron_, out of the list of my boats. I am
going back to Beatrice with gold in my hands and gold in my brain! All
for her. But is she not worth it? Look!"

He thrust the second portrait into McTee's hands. It showed a rather
thin-faced girl with abnormally large eyes and a rather pathetic smile.
It was an appealing face rather than a pretty one.

"Beautiful!" said McTee with forced enthusiasm.

"Yes, beautiful! A little pinched, perhaps, but she'll fill out as she
grows older. And those are her grandmother's eyes! Aye!"

He took the photograph and touched it lightly.

His voice grew lower, and the roughness was plainly a tremolo now: "The
doctors say she's sick, a little sick, quite sick, in fact. Twice every
day I make them send me wireless reports of her condition. One day it's
better--one day it's worse."

He began to walk the cabin, his step marvelously elastic and nervous
for so aged a man.

"Is it not well, McTee? Let her be at death's door! I shall come to her
bedside with gold in either hand and raise her up to life! She shall
owe everything to me! Will that not make her love me? Will it?"

He grasped McTee's shoulder tightly.

"I'm not a pretty lad to look at, eh, lad?"

McTee poured himself a drink hastily, and drained the glass before he
answered.

"A pretty man? Nonsense, Henshaw! A little weather-beaten, but a tight
craft at that; she'll worship the ground you walk! Character, Henshaw,
that's what these new American girls want to see in a man!"

Henshaw sighed with deep relief.

"Ah-h, McTee, you comfort me more than a drink on a stormy night! For
reward, you shall see what I'm bringing back to her. Come!"

He rose and led McTee into his bedroom, for two cabins were retained
for the captain's use. Filling one corner of the room was a huge safe
almost as tall as a man.

He squatted before the safe and commenced to work the combination with
a swift sureness which told McTee at once that the old buccaneer came
here many times a day to gloat over his treasure. At length the door of
the safe fell open. Inside was a great mass of little canvas bags.
McTee was panting as if he had run a great distance at full speed.

"Take one."

The Scotchman raised one of the bags and shook it. A musical clinking
sounded.

"Forty pounds of gold coin," said Henshaw, "and about ten thousand
dollars in all. There are eighty-five of those bags, and every one
holds the same amount. Also--"

He opened a little drawer at the top of the safe and took from it a
chamois bag. When he untied it, McTee looked within and saw a quantity
of pearls. He took out a small handful. They were chosen jewels,
flawless, glowing. His hand seemed to overflow with white fire. He
dropped them back in the bag, letting each pearl run over the end of
his fingers. Henshaw restored the bag and locked the safe. Then the two
men stared at each other. They had been opposite types the moment
before, but now their lips parted in the same thirsty eagerness.

"If she were dead," said McTee almost reverently, "the sight of that
would bring her back to life."

"McTee, you're a worthy lad. They've told me lies about you. Indeed it
would bring her back to life! It must be so! And yet--" Sudden
melancholy fell on him as they returned to the other room and sat down.
"Yet I think night and day of what an old devil of a black magician
told me in the Solomon Islands. He said I and my gold should burn
together. I laughed at him and told him I could not die on dry land. He
said I would not, but that I should burn at sea! Think of that, McTee!
Suppose I should be robbed of the sight of my girl and of my gold at
the same time!"

McTee started to say something cheerful, but his voice died away to a
mutter. Henshaw was staring at the wall with visionary eyes filled with
horror and despair.

"Lad, do you think ghosts have power?"

"Henshaw, you've drunk a bit too much!"

"If they have no power, I'm safe. I fear no living man!" He added
softly: "No man but myself!"

"I'm tired out," said McTee suddenly. "Where shall I bunk, captain?"

"Here! Here in this room! Take that couch in the corner over there. It
has a good set of springs. With gold in my hands. Here are some
blankets. With gold in my hands and my brain. Though you don't need
much covering in this latitude. I would raise her from the grave."

He went about, interspersing his remarks to McTee with half-audible
murmurs addressed to his own ears.

"Is this," thought McTee, "the Shark of the South Seas?"

A knock came and the door opened. A fat sailor in an oilskin hat stood
at the entrance.

"The cook ain't put out no lunch for the night watches, sir," he
whined.

Henshaw had stood with his back turned as the door opened. He turned
now slowly toward the open door. McTee could not see his face nor guess
at its expression, but the moment the big sailor caught a glimpse of
his skipper's countenance, he blanched and jumped back into the night,
slamming the door behind him. That sight recalled something to McTee.

"One thing more, captain," he said. "What of Harrigan? Do we break him
between us?"

"Aye, in your own way!"

"Good! Then start him scrubbing the bridge and send him down to the
fireroom afterwards, eh?"

"It's done. Why do you hate him, McTee? Is it the girl?"

"No; the color of his hair. Good night."




CHAPTER 17


Long before this, Harrigan had reported to the bos'n, burly Jerry
Hovey, and had been assigned to a bunk into which he fairly dived and
fell asleep in the posture in which he landed. In the morning he
tumbled out with the other men and became the object of a crossfire of
questions from the curious sailors who wanted to know all the details
of the wreck of the _Mary Rogers_ and the life on the island. He was
saved from answering nine-tenths of the chatter by a signal from the
bos'n, who beckoned Harrigan to a stool a little apart from the rest of
the crew. Jerry Hovey was a cheery fellow of considerable bulk, with an
habitual smile. That smile went out, however, when he talked with
Harrigan, and the Irishman became conscious of a pair of steady, alert
gray eyes.

"Look here," said Hovey, and he talked out of the corner of his mouth
with a skill which would have become an old convict of many terms,
"I've had it put to me straight that you're a hard one. Is that the
right dope?"

Harrigan smiled.

"Because if it is," said Hovey, "we're the best gang at bustin' up
these hard guys that ever walked the deck of a ship. If you try any
side steps and fancy ducking of your work, there'll be a disciplinin'
comin' your way at a gallop. Are you wise?"

Harrigan still smiled, but the coldness of his eye made the bos'n
thoughtful. He was not one, however, to be easily cowed. Now he balled
his fist and smote it against the palm of his other hand with a slap
that resounded.

"On my own hook," he stated, "I can sling my mitts with the best of
them, an' I'm always lookin' for work in that line. Now I'm sayin' all
this in private, sonny, to let you know that Black McTee has wised up
the skipper about you, and I'm keepin' a weather eye open. If you make
one funny move, I'll be on your back."

"All right, Jerry."

"Don't call me Jerry, you swab! I'm the bos'n."

"Look me in the eye, Jerry Hovey, me dear. If you so much as bat the
lashes av wan eye in lookin' at me, I'll bust ye in two pieces like a
sea biscuit, Jerry, an' I'll eat the biggest half an' throw the rest
into the sea. Ar-r-re ye wise?"

Now, Jerry Hovey was a very big man, and he had thrashed men of larger
bulk than Harrigan. But there was something about the Irishman's
thickness of shoulder and length of arm that gave him pause. So first
of all Jerry grew very thoughtful indeed, and then his habitual smile
returned. Nevertheless, Harrigan did not forget those gray, alert eyes.

The bos'n went on in a gentler voice: "I was tryin' you out, Harrigan.
I'll lay to it that the cap'n has the wrong idea about you. But will
you tell me why he's ridin' you?"

"Sure. It's Black McTee. Before the _Mary Rogers_ went down, McTee was
tryin' to break me. I guess he's asked this White Henshaw to try a
hand. What have they got lined up for me?"

"You're to scrub down the bridge an' while your hands are still soft
you go down to the fireroom an' pass coal. It'll tear your hands off,
that work."

Harrigan was gray, but he answered. "That's an old story. McTee worked
me like that all the time."

"An' you didn't break?" gasped Hovey.

Harrigan grinned, but his smile stopped when he noticed a certain
calculation in the face of the bos'n.

"Mate," said Hovey, "I guess you're about ripe for something I'm goin'
to say to you one of these days. Now go up to the bridge an' scrub it
down."

With the prospect of the long torture before him once more, Harrigan in
a daze picked up the bucket of suds to which he was pointed and went
with his brush toward the bridge. Through the mist which enveloped his
brain broke wild thoughts--to steal upon McTee at the first meeting and
hurl his hated body overboard. Yet even in his bewildered condition he
realized what such an act would mean. Murder on land is bad enough, but
murder at sea is doubly damned by the law. It was in the power of White
Henshaw to hang him up to the mast.

Revolving these dismal prospects with downward head, he climbed from
the waist of the ship to the cabin promenade, and there a voice hailed
him, and he turned to see Kate Malone approaching. She was all in
white--cap, canvas shoes, silk shirt absurdly lose at the throat, and
linen coat with the sleeves turned far back so that her hands would not
be enveloped. The duck trousers were also taken up several reefs.

"Good morning," she said, and held out her hand.

He watched her smile wistfully, and then made a little gesture with his
own hands, one burdened with the scrubbing brush and the other with the
bucket.

"What does it mean?"

"Hell," said Harrigan.

"Explain."

"It's McTee again, damn his eyes!"

"Do you mean to say they've started to treat you as they did on the
_Mary Rogers_? The scrubbing and then the work in the fireroom?"

"Right."

She stamped her foot in impotent fury.

"What manner of man is he, Dan? He's not all brute; why does he treat
you like this?"

The Irishman smiled.

She cried with increasing anger: "What can I do?"

"Make your skin yellow an' your hair gray an' walk with no spring in
your step. He wants to break me now because of you."

There was moist pity in her eyes, yet they gleamed with excitement at
the thought of this battle of the Titans for her sake.

"I will go to him," she said after a moment, "and tell him that you
mean nothing to me. Then he will stop."

The cold, incurious eyes studied her without passion, and once more he
smiled.

"He'll not stop. Whether you like me or not, Kate, doesn't count. One
of us'll go down, an' you'll be for the one that's left. He knows it--I
know it."

"Harrigan!" called the voice of McTee from the bridge, and the tall
Scotchman lifted his cap to Kate.

"I'm the slave," said Harrigan, "and there's the whip. Good-by."

She stamped her foot with an almost childish fury, saying: "Someday he
shall regret this brutal tyranny. Good-by, Dan, and good luck!"

She took his hand in both of hers, but her eyes held spitefully upon
the bridge, as if she hoped that McTee would witness the handshake; the
captain, however, had turned his back upon them.

Dan muttered to himself as he climbed the bridge: "Did she do that to
anger McTee or to please me?" And the thought so occupied his mind that
he paid no attention to the Scotchman when he reached the bridge. He
merely dropped to his knees and commenced scrubbing. McTee, in the
meanwhile, loitered about the bridge as if on his own ship. In due time
Harrigan drew near, the suds swishing under his brush. The Irishman,
remembering suddenly, commenced to hum a tune.

"The old grind, eh, Harrigan?" said McTee.

The Irishman, humming idly still, looked up, calmly surveyed the
captain, and then went on as if he had heard merely empty wind instead
of words.

"After the scrubbing brush the shovel," went on McTee, but still
Harrigan paid no attention. He rose when his task was completed and
made his eyes gentle as if with pity while he gazed upon McTee.

"I'm sorry for you, McTee; you've made a hard fight; it's strange
you've got no ghost of a chance of winnin'."

"What d'you mean?"

"Couldn't you hear her when she talked to me?"

"I could not."

"Couldn't you see her face? It was written there as plain as print."

McTee cleared his throat.

"What was written there?"

"The thing you want to see. When she took my hand in both of hers--"

"Hell!"

"Ah-h, man, it was wonderful! The scrubbing brush an' the shovel--they
mean nothin' to me now."

"Harrigan, you're lying."

The latter dropped his scrubbing brush into the bucket of suds and
stood with arms akimbo studying the captain.

"For a smart man, McTee, you've been a fool. I could of gone down on me
knees an' begged to do what you've done. Don't you see? You've thrown
her with her will or against it into me arms. I'm poor Harrigan, brave
and downtrodden; you're Black McTee once more, the tyrant. She looks
sick at the mention of your name."

"I never dreamed you'd go whining to her. I thought you were a man;
you're only a spineless dog, Harrigan!"

"Am I that? She pities me, McTee, an' from pity it's only one step to
something bigger. Can you trust me to lead her that one step? You can!"

"If I went to her and told her how you boasted of having won her?"

"She wouldn't believe what you said about me if you swore it with both
hands on the Bible. Be wise, McTee. Give up the game. You've lost her,
me boy! For every day that I work in the fireroom I'll come to her an'
show her the palms of me bleedin' hands an' mention your name. An' for
every day I work in the hole the hate of you will burn blacker into her
heart."

"I'd rather have her hate than her pity."

"You'll have both; her hate for torturin' Harrigan; her pity for
lettin' the devil in you get the best of the man. You're done for,
McTee."

Each one of the short phrases was like a whip flicked across the face
of McTee, but he would not wince.

"You've said enough. Now get down to the fireroom. I've had Henshaw
prepare the chief engineer for your coming."

Harrigan turned.

"Wait! Remember when you're in hell that the old compact still holds.
Your hand in mine and a promise to be my man will end the war."

Only the low laughter of the Irishman answered as he made his way down
to the deck.




CHAPTER 18


"There's times for truth an' there's times for lying," murmured
Harrigan, as he stowed away the bucket and brush and started down for
the fireroom, "an' this was one of the times for lyin'. He's sick for
the love of her, an' he's hatin' the thought of Harrigan."

So he was humming a rollicking tune when he reached the fireroom. It
was stifling hot, to be sure, but it was twice as large as that of the
Mary Rogers. The firemen were all glistening with sweat. One of them,
larger than the rest and with a bristling, shoebrush mustache like a
sign of authority, said to the newcomer: "You're Harrigan?"

He nodded.

"The chief wants to see you, boss, before you start swingin' the
shovel."

"Where's the chief's cabin?"

"Take him up, Alex," directed the big fireman, and Harrigan followed
one of the men up the narrow ladder and then aft. He was grateful for
this light respite from the heat of the hole, but his joy faded when
the man opened a door and he stood at last before the chief, Douglas
Campbell, who looked up at the burly Irishman in a long silence.

The scion of the ancient and glorious clan of the Campbells had fallen
far indeed. His face was a brilliant red, and the nose, comically
swollen at the end, was crossed with many blue veins. Like Milton's
_Satan_, however, he retained some traces of his original brightness.
Harrigan knew at once that the chief engineer was fully worthy of
joining those rulers of the south seas and harriers of weaker men,
McTee and White Henshaw.

"Stand straight and look me in the eye," said Campbell, and in his
voice was a slight "bur-r-r" of the Scotch accent.

Harrigan jerked back his shoulders and stood like a soldier at
attention.

"A drinkin' man," he was saying to himself, "may be hard an' fallen
low, but he's sure to have a heart."

"So you're the mutineer, my fine buck?"

Harrigan hesitated, and this seemed to infuriate Campbell, who banged a
brawny fist on a table and thundered: "Answer me, or I'll skin your
worthless carcass!"

The cold, blue eyes of Harrigan did not falter. They studied the face
of the Campbell as a fighter gauges his opponent.

"If I say 'yes,'" he responded at length, "it's as good as puttin'
myself in chains; if I say 'no,' you'll be thinkin' I'm givin' in, you
an' McTee, damn his eyes!"

Campbell grew still redder.

"You damn him, do you? McTee is Scotch; he's a gentleman too good to be
named by swine!"

The irrepressible Harrigan replied: "He's enough to make swine speak!"

Amazement and then a gleam of laughter shone in the eyes of the chief
engineer. He was seized, apparently, by a fit of violent coughing and
had to turn away, hiding his face with his hand. When he faced the
Irishman again, his jaw was set hard, but his eyes were moist.

"Look me in the eye, laddie. Men say a good many things about me; they
call me a slave driver and worse. Why? Because when I say 'move,' my
men have to jump. I've asked you a question, and I'm going to get an
answer. Are you a mutineer or not?"

"I will not pleasure McTee by sayin' I'm not!"

The ponderous hand rose over the table, but it was checked before it
fell.

"What the devil has McTee to do with this?" he bellowed.

"He's the one that sent me here." Harrigan was thinking fast as he went
on: "And you're going to keep me here for the sake of McTee."

Campbell changed from red to purple and exploded: "I'll keep no man
here to please another; not White Henshaw himself. He rules on deck,
and I rule below. D'you hear? Tell me you're a liar! Speak up!"

"You're a liar," said Harrigan instantly.

The engineer's mouth opened and closed twice while he stared at
Harrigan.

"Get out!" he shouted, springing to his feet. "I'll have you boxed up
and sweated; I'll have you pounded to a pulp! Wait! Stay here! I'll
bring in some men!"

Harrigan was desperate. He knew that what he had said was equivalent to
a mutiny. He threw caution to the wind. Campbell had rung a bell.

"Bring your men an' be damned!" he answered; and now his head tilted
back and he set his shoulders to the wall. "I'll be afther lickin' your
whole crew! A man do ye call yourself? Ah-h, ye're not fit to be
lickin' the boots ay a man! Slave driver? No, ye're an overseer, an'
Henshaw kicks you an' you pass the kick along. But lay a hand on
Harrigan, an' he'll tear the rotten head off your shoulders!"

The door flew open, and the second assistant engineer, a burly man,
with two or three others, appeared at the entrance, drawn by the
furious clamor of the bell.

"What--" began the second assistant, and then stopped as he caught
sight of Harrigan against the wall with his hands poised, ready for the
first attack.

"Who called you?" roared Campbell.

"Your bell--" began the assistant.

"You lie! Get out! I was telling a joke to my old friend Harrigan.
Maybe I leaned back against the bell. Shake hands with Harrigan. I've
known him for years."

Incredulous, Harrigan lowered his clenched fist and relaxed it to meet
the hesitant hand of the assistant.

"Now be off," growled the chief, and the others fled.

As the door closed, Harrigan turned in stupid amazement upon the
Scotchman. The latter had dropped into his chair again and now looked
at Harrigan with twinkling eyes.

"You'd have fought 'em all, eh, lad?"

He burst into heavy laughter.

"Ah, the blue devil that came in your eyes! Why did I not let them have
one whirl at you? Ha, ha, ha!"

"Wake me up," muttered Harrigan. "I'm dreamin'!"

"There's a thick lie in my throat," said Campbell. "I must wash it out
and leave a truth there!"

He opened a small cupboard, exposing a formidable array of black and
green bottles. One of the black he pulled down, as well as two small
glasses, which he filled to the brim.

"To your bonny blue eyes, lad!" he said, and raised a glass. "Here's an
end to the mutiny--and a drop to our old friendship!"

Harrigan, still with clouded mind, raised the glass and drank. It was a
fine sherry wine.

"How old would you say that wine was?" queried the Scotchman with
exaggerated carelessness.

The carelessness did not deceive Harrigan. His mind went blanker still,
for he knew little about good wines.

"Well?" asked the engineer.

"H-m!" muttered Harrigan, and racked his brain to remember the ages at
which a good vintage becomes a rare old wine. "About thirty-five
years."

"By the Lord!" cried Campbell. "It never fails--a strong man knows his
liquor like a book! You're almost right. Add three years and you have
it! Thirty-eight years in sunshine and shadow!"

He leaned back and gazed dreamily up to the ceiling.

"Think of it," he went on in a reverent murmur. "Men have been born and
grown strong and then started toward the shady side of life since this
wine was put in the bottle. For thirty-eight years it has been
gathering and saving its perfume--draw a breath of it now, lad!--and
when I uncork the bottle, all the odor blows out to me at once."

"True," said Harrigan, nodding sagely. "I've thought the same thing,
but never found the words for it, chief."

"Have you?" asked Campbell eagerly. "Sit down, lad; sit down! Well,
well! Good wine was put on earth for a blessing, but men have misused
it, Harrigan--but hear me preaching when I ought to be praying!"

"Prayin'?" repeated the diplomatic Harrigan. "No, no, man! Maybe you've
drunk a good store of liquor, but it shines through you. It puts a
flush on your face like a sun shinin' through a cloud. You'd hearten
any man on a dark day!"

He could not resist the play on the words, and a shadow crossed the
face of the engineer.

"Harrigan," he growled, "there's a double meaning in what you say, but
I'll not think of it. You're no fool, lad, but do not vex me. But say
your say. I suppose I'm red enough to be seen by my own light on a dark
night. What does Bobbie say?

"Oh, wad some power the giftie gie us
To see oursels as others see us!

"Well, well! I forgave you for the sake of Bobbie! Do you know his
rhymes, lad?"

A light shone in the eye of Harrigan. He began to sing softly in his
musical, deep voice: "Ye banks and braes of bonny Doon--"

"No, no, man!" cried Campbell, raising his hand in horror at the sound
of the false accent. "It should go like this!"

He pulled a guitar out of a case and commenced to strum lightly on it,
while he rendered the old song in a voice roughened by ill usage but
still strong and true. A knock at the door interrupted him at the
climax of his song, and he glared toward the unseen and rash intruder.

"What will ye hae?" he roared, continuing the dialect which the song
had freshened on his tongue.

"The shift in the fireroom is short-handed," said the voice. "That
fellow Harrigan has not shown up. Shall we search for him?"

"Search for the de'il!" thundered Campbell. "Harrigan is doing a fine
piece of work for me; shall I let him go to the fireroom to swing a
shovel?"

"The captain's orders, sir," persisted the voice rashly.

Campbell leaped for the door and jerked it open a few inches.

"Be off!" he cried; "or I'll set you passin' coal yourself, my fine
lad! What? Will ye be asking questions? Is there no discipline? Mutiny,
mutiny--that's what this is!"

"Aye, aye, sir!" murmured a rapidly retreating voice.

Campbell closed and locked the door and turned back to Harrigan with a
grin.

"The world's a wide place," he said, "but there's few enough in it who
know our Bobbie, God bless him! When I've found one, shall I let him go
down to the fireroom? Ha! Now tell me what's wrong between you and
McTee."

"I will not talk," said Harrigan with another bold stroke of diplomacy,
"till I hear the rest of that song. The true Scotch comes hard on my
tongue, but I'll learn it."

"You will, laddie, for your heart's right. Man, man, I'm nothing now,
but you should have heard me sing in the old days--"

"When we were in Glasgow," grinned Harrigan.

"In Glasgow," repeated Campbell, and then lifted his head and finished
the song. "Now for the story, laddie."

Harrigan started, as though recalled from a dream built up by the
music. Then he told briefly the tale of the tyranny aboard the _Mary
Rogers_, now apparently to be repeated.

"So I thought," he concluded, "that it was to be the old story over
again--look at my hands!"

He held them out. The palms were still red and deeply scarred. Campbell
said nothing, but his jaw set savagely.

"I thought it was to be this all over again," went on Harrigan, "till I
met you, chief. But with you for a friend I'll weather the storm.
McTee's a hard man, but when Scot meets Scot--I'll bet on the
Campbells."

"Would you bet on me against Black McTee?" queried the engineer, deeply
moved. "Well, lad, McTee's a dour man, but dour or not he shall not run
the engine room of the _Heron_."

And he banged on the table for emphasis.

"Scrub down the bridge every morning, as they tell you, but when they
send you below to pass the coal, come and report to me first. I'll have
work for you to do--chiefly practicing the right accent for Bobbie's
songs. Is not that a man's work?"




CHAPTER 19


To make good this promise, Campbell straightway sang for Harrigan's
delectation two or three more of his favorite selections. It was
evening, and the shift in the fireroom was ended before Harrigan left
the engineer's room. On his way to the deck he passed the tired firemen
from the hole of the ship. They stared at the Irishman with wide eyes,
for it was known that he had been in the chief engineer's room for
several hours; they looked upon him as one who has been in hell and has
escaped from thence to the upper air.

He was, in fact, a marked man when he reached the forecastle. Rumor
travels through a ship's crew and it was already known that Black McTee
hated the Irishman and that White Henshaw had commenced to persecute
him in a new and terrible manner.

This would have been sufficient tragedy to burden the shoulders of any
one man, however strong, and when to this was added the fact that he
had been kept by the grim chief engineer for several hours in the
chief's own room, and finally considering that this man had passed
through a shipwreck, one of three lone survivors, it is easy to
understand why the sailors gave him ample elbow room.

It was evidently expected that he would break out into a torrent of
abuse, and when he, perceiving this, remained silent, their awe
increased. All through supper he was aware of their wondering glances;
above all he felt the gray, steady eyes of Jerry Hovey, the bos'n, yet
he ate without speaking, replying to their tentative questions with
grunts. Before the meal was finished and the pipes and cigarettes
lighted, he was a made man. Persevering in his role, as soon as he had
eaten he went out on deck and sat down in the corner between the rail
and the forecastle upon a coil of rope.

As deep as the blue sea in the evening light was the peace which lay on
the soul of Harrigan, for the day had brought two great victories, one
over McTee and the other over the chief engineer. It was not a stolid
content, for he knew the danger of the implacable hate of McTee, but
with the aid of Campbell he felt that he would have a fighting chance
at least to survive, and that was all he asked.

So he sat on the coil of rope leaning against the rail, and looked
ahead. It was almost completely dark when a hand fell on his shoulder
and he looked up into the steady, gray-blue eyes of the bos'n.

"I promised to talk to you tonight," said that worthy, and sat down
uninvited on a neighboring coil of rope.

He waited for a response. As a rule, sailors are glad to curry favor
with the bos'n. Harrigan, however, sat without speaking, staring
through the gloom.

"Well?" said Hovey at length. "You're a silent man, Harrigan."

There was no response.

"All right; I like a silent man. In a way of speakin', I need 'em like
you! If you say little to me, you're likely to say little to others.

"I don't talk much myself," went on Hovey, "until I know my man. I
ain't seen much of you, but I guess I figure you straight."

He grew suddenly cautious, cunning, and the steady, gray-blue eyes
reminded Harrigan of a cat when she crouches for hours watching the
rathole.

"You ain't got much reason for standing in with White Henshaw?" he
purred.

"H'm," grunted the Irishman, and waited.

"Sure, you ain't," went on Hovey soothingly, "because McTee has raised
hell between you. They say McTee tried his damnedest to break you?"

The last question was put in a different manner; it came suddenly like
a surprise blow in the dark.

"Well?" queried Harrigan. "What of it?"

"He tried all the way from Honolulu?"

"He did."

"Did he try his fists?"

"He did."

Jerry Hovey cursed with excitement.

"And?"

"I carried him to his cabin afterward," said Harrigan truthfully.

"Would you take on McTee again? Black McTee?"

"If I had to. Why?"

"Oh, nothin'. But McTee has started White Henshaw on your trail. Maybe
you know what Henshaw is? The whole South Seas know him!"

"Well?"

"You'll have a sweet hell of a time before this boat touches port,
Harrigan."

"I'll weather it."

"Yes, this trip, but what about the next? If Henshaw is breakin' a man,
he keeps him on the ship till the man gives in or dies. I know!
Henshaw'll get so much against you that he could soak you for ten years
in the courts by the time we touch port. Then he'll offer to let you
off from the courts if you'll ship with him again, and then the old
game will start all over again. You may last one trip--other men
have--one or two--but no one has ever lasted out three or four
shippings under White Henshaw. It can't be done!"

He paused to let this vital point sink home. Only the same dull silence
came in reply, and this continued taciturnity seemed to irritate Hovey.
When he spoke again, his voice was cold and sharp.

"He's got you trapped, Harrigan. You're a strong man, but you'll never
get his rope off your neck. He'll either hang you with it or else tie
you hand and foot an' make you his slave. I _know!_"

There was a bitter emphasis on the last word that left no doubt as to
his meaning, and Harrigan understood now the light of that steady,
gray-blue eye which made the habitual smile of good nature meaningless.

"Ten years ago I shipped with White Henshaw. Ten years ago I didn't
have a crooked thought or a mean one in my brain. Today there's hell
inside me, understand? Hell!" He paused, breathing hard.

"There's others on this ship that have been through the same grind,
some of them longer than me. There's others that ain't here, but that
ain't forgotten, because me an' some of the rest, we seen them dyin' on
their feet. Maybe they ain't dropped into the sea, but they're just the
same, or worse. You'll find 'em loafin' along the beaches. They take
water from the natives, they do."

He went on in a hoarse whisper: "On this ship I've seen 'em busted. An'
Henshaw has done the bustin'. This is a coffin ship, Harrigan, an'
Henshaw he's the undertaker. He don't bring 'em to Davy Jones's
locker--he does worse--he brings 'em to hell on earth, a hell so bad
that when they go below, they don't notice no difference. Harrigan, me
an' a few of the rest, we know what's been done, an' some of us have
thought wouldn't it be a sort of joke, maybe, if sometime what Henshaw
has done to others was done to himself, what?"

The sweat was standing out on Harrigan's face wet and cold. It seemed
to him that through the darkness he could make out whole troops of
those broken men littering the decks. He peered through the dark at the
bos'n, and made out the hint of the gray-blue eyes watching him again
as the cat watches the mousehole, and the heart of Harrigan ached.

"Hovey, are you bound for the loincloth an' the beaches, like the
rest?"

"No, because I've sold my soul to White Henshaw; but you're bound
there, Harrigan, because you can never sell your soul. I looked in your
eyes and seen it written there like it was in a book."

He gripped the Irishman by the shoulder.

"There's some say this is the last voyage of White Henshaw, but me an'
some of the rest, we know different. He can't leave the sea, which
means that he won't take us out of hell. Now, talk straight. You stood
up to McTee; would you stand up to Henshaw?"

Harrigan muttered after a moment of thought: "I suppose this is mutiny,
bos'n?"

"Aye, but I'm safe in talkin' it. White Henshaw trusts me, he does,
because I've sold my soul to him. If you was to go an' tell him what
I've said, he'd laugh at you an' say you was tryin' to incite
discontent. What's it goin' to be, Harrigan? Will you join me an' the
rest who can set you free an' make a man of you, or will you stay by
McTee and White Henshaw and that devil Campbell?"

"How could you set me free?"

"One move--altogether--in the night--we'd have the ship for our own,
an' we could beach her and take to the shore at any place we pleased."

Harrigan repeated: "One move--altogether--in the night! I don't like
it, bos'n. I'll stand up to my man foot to foot an' hand to hand, but
for strikin' at him in the dark--I can't do it."

He caught the sound of Hovey's gritting teeth.

"Think it over," persisted the bos'n. "We need you, Harrigan, but if
you don't join, we'll help McTee and Henshaw and Campbell to make life
hell for you."

"I've thought it over. I don't like the game. This mutiny at
night--it's like hittin' a man who's down."

"That's final?"

"It is."

"Then God help you, Harrigan, for you ain't the man I took you for."




CHAPTER 20


He rose and left Harrigan to the dark, which now lay so thick over the
sea that he could only dimly make out the black, wallowing length of
the ship. After a time, he went into the dingy forecastle and stretched
out on his bunk. Some of the sailors were already in bed, propping
their heads up with brawny, tattooed arms while they smoked their
pipes. For a time Harrigan pondered the mutiny, glancing at the stolid
faces of the smokers and trying to picture them in action when they
would steal through the night barefooted across the deck--some of them
with bludgeons, others with knives, and all with a thirst for murder.

Sleep began to overcome him, and he fought vainly against it. In a
choppy sea the bows of a ship make the worst possible bed, for they
toss up and down with sickening rapidity and jar quickly from side to
side; but when a vessel is plowing through a long-running ground swell,
the bows of the ship move with a sway more soothing than the swing of a
hammock in a wind. Under these circumstances Harrigan was lulled to
sleep.

He woke at length with a consciousness, not of a light shining in his
face, but of one that had just been flashed across his eyes. Then a
guarded voice said: "He's dead to the world; he won't hear nothin'."

Peering cautiously up from under the shelter of his eyelashes, he made
out a bulky figure leaning above him.

"Sure he's dead to the world," said a more distant voice. "After the
day he must have put in with Campbell, he won't wake up till he's
dragged out. I know!"

"Lift his foot and let it drop," advised another. "If you can do that
to a man without waking him, you know he's not going to be waked up by
any talkin'."

Harrigan's foot was immediately raised and dropped. He merely sighed as
if in sleep, and continued to breathe heavily, regularly. After a
moment he was conscious that the form above him had disappeared. Then
very slowly he turned his head and raised his eyelids merely enough to
peer through the lashes. The sailors sat cross-legged in a loose circle
on the floor of the forecastle. At the four corners of the group sat
four significant figures. They were like the posts of the prize ring
supporting the rope; that is to say, the less important sailors who sat
between them. Each of the four was a man of mark.

Facing Harrigan were Jacob Flint and Sam Hall. The former was a little
man, who might have lived unnoticed forever had it not been for a
terrible scar which deformed his face. It was a cut received in a knife
fight at a Chinese port. The white, gleaming line ran from the top of
his temple, across the side of his right eye, and down to the
cheekbone. The eye was blind as a result of the wound, but in healing
the cut had drawn the skin so that the lids of the eye were pulled awry
in a perpetual, villainous squint. It was said that before this wound
Flint had been merely an ordinary sailor, but that afterward he was
inspired to live up to the terror of his deformed face.

Sam Hall, the "corner post," at Flint's right, was a type of blond
stupidity, huge of body, with a bull throat and a round, featureless
face. You looked in vain to find anything significant in this fellow
beyond his physical strength, until your glance lingered on his eyes.
They were pale blue, expressionless, but they hinted at possibilities
of berserker rage.

The other two, whose backs were toward Harrigan, were Garry Cochrane
and Jim Kyle. The latter might have stood for a portrait of a pirate of
the eighteenth century, with a drooping, red mustache and bristling
beard. The reputation of this monster, however, was far less terrible
than that of any of the other three, certainly far less than Garry
Cochrane. This was a lean fellow with bright black eyes, glittering
like a suspicious wolf's.

Between these corner posts sat the less distinguished sailors. They
might have been notable cutthroats in any other assemblage of
hard-living men, but here they granted precedence willingly to the four
more notable heroes.

Around the circle walked Jerry Hovey like a shepherd about his flock.
It was apparent that they all held him in high favor. His chief claim
to distinction, or perhaps his only one, was that he had served as
bos'n for ten years under White Henshaw; but this record was enough to
win the respect of even Garry Cochrane.

It was Jim Kyle who had peered into the face of Harrigan, for now he
was pushing to one side the lantern he had used and settling back into
his place in the circle. He gestured over his shoulder with his thumb.

"How'd you happen to miss out with the Irishman, Jerry?"

"Talk low or you may wake him," warned Hovey. "I lost him because the
fool ain't sailed long enough to know White Henshaw. He has an idea
that mutiny at night is like hittin' a man when he's down--as if there
was any other way of hittin' Henshaw an' gettin' away with it!"

The chuckle of the sailors was like the rumble of the machinery below,
blended and lost with that sound.

"So he's out--an' you know what that means," went on Hovey.

A light came into the pale eyes of Sam Hall, and his thick lips pulled
back in a grin.

"Aye," he growled, "we do! He's a strong man, but"--and here he raised
his vast arms and stretched them--"I'll tend to Harrigan!"

The voice of the bos'n was sharp: "None o' that! Wait till I give
orders, Sam, before you raise a hand. We're too far from the coast. Let
old Henshaw bring us close inshore, an' then we'll turn loose."

"What I don't see," said one of the sailors, "is how we make out for
hard cash after we hit the coast. We beach the Heron--all right; but
then we're turned loose in the woods without a cent."

"You're a fool," said Garry Cochrane. "We loot the ship before we
abandon her. There'll be money somewhere."

"Aye," said Hovey, "there's money. That's what I got you together for
tonight. There's money, and more of it than you ever dreamed of."

He waited for his words to take effect in the brains of the men,
running his glance around the circle, and a light flashed in response
to each eye as it met his.

He continued: "White Henshaw cashed in every cent of his property
before he sailed in the _Heron_. I know, because he used me for some of
his errands. And I know that he had a big safe put into his cabin. For
ten years everything that White Henshaw has looked at turned into gold.
I know! All that gold he's got in that safe--you can lay to that."

He turned to the sailor who had first raised the question: "Money?
You'll have your share of the loot--if you can carry it!"

They drew in their breath as if they were drinking.

Hovey continued: "Now, lads, I know you're gettin' excited and
impatient. That's why I've got you together. You've got to wait. And
until I give the word, you've got to keep your eyes on the deck an' run
every time one of the mates of White Henshaw--damn his heart!--gives
the word. Why? Because one wrong word--one queer look--will tip off the
skipper that something's wrong, and once he gets suspicious, you can
lay to it that he'll find out what we're plannin'. I _know!_"

There was a grim significance in that repeated phrase, "I _know_," for
it hinted at a knowledge more complete and evil than falls to the share
of the ordinary mortal.

"Lads, keep your eyes on the deck and play the game until I give the
word! If the wind of this comes to the captain, it's overboard for
Jerry Hovey. I'd rather give myself to the sharks than to White
Henshaw. That's all.

"Now, lads, it's come to the point where we've got to know what we'll
do. There's two ways. One is to crowd all them what ain't in the mutiny
into one cabin an' keep 'em there till we beach the boat."

"So that they can get out and tell the land sharks what we've done?"
suggested Garry Cochrane in disgust.

"Garry," said Hovey with deep feeling, "you're a lad after my heart.
And you're right. If one of them lives, he'll be enough to put a halter
around the necks of each of us. We couldn't get away. If we're once
described, there ain't no way we could dodge the law."

He grinned sardonically as he looked about the circle: "There's
something about us, lads, that makes us different from other men."

The sailors glanced appreciatively at the scarred countenances of their
fellows and laughed hoarsely.

"So the second way is the only way," went on Hovey, seeing that he had
scored his point. "The rest of the crew that ain't with us has got to
go under. Are you with me?"

"Aye," croaked the chorus, and every man looked down at the floor. Each
one had picked out the man he hated the most, and was preparing the
manner of the killing.

"Good," said Hovey; "and now that we've agreed on that, we've got to
choose--"

He stopped, going rigid and blank of face. He had seen the open,
chilling blue eye of Harrigan, who, drawn on into forgetfulness, had
lain for some time on his bunk watching the scene without caution.




CHAPTER 21


"He's heard!" stammered Hovey, pointing. "Guard the door! Get him!"

"Bash in his head an' overboard with the lubber!" growled Sam Hall.

Not one of the others spoke; their actions were the more significant.
Some leaped to the door and barred the exit.

Others started for Harrigan. The latter leaped off his bunk and,
sweeping up a short-legged, heavy stool, sprang back against the wall.
This he held poised, ready to drive it at the first man who approached.
Their semicircle grew compact before him, but still they hesitated, for
the man who made the first move would die.

"You fools!" said Harrigan, brandishing his stool. "Keep off!"

He was thinking desperately, quickly.

"Harrigan," said Hovey, edging his way to the front of the sailors,
"you heard!"

"I did!"

They growled, infuriated. His death was certain now, but they kept back
for another moment, astonished that this man would sign his own
sentence of doom. From marlinspikes to pocketknives, every man held
some sort of a weapon. Garry Cochrane, flattening himself against the
wall at one side, edged inch by inch toward Harrigan.

"I heard it all," said the Irishman, "and until the last word I thought
you were a lot of bluffin' cowards."

"You had your chance, Harrigan," said Hovey, "an' you turned me down.
Now you get what's due you."

The sailors crouched a little as if at a command to leap forward in the
attack. Cochrane was perilously near.

"If I get my due," said Harrigan coolly, "you'll go down on your knees.
Stand back, Cochrane, or I'll brain ye! You'll go down on your knees
an' thank God that I'm with ye!"

"Stand fast, Garry!" ordered Hovey. "What do you mean, Harrigan?"

The Irishman laughed. Every son of Erin is an actor, and now Harrigan's
laughter rang true.

"What should I mean except what I said?" he answered.

"He's tryin' to save his head," broke in Kyle, "but with the fear of
death lookin' him in the eye, any man would join us. Finish him, lads."

"You fool!" said Harrigan authoritatively. "Don't talk so loud, or
you'll have White Henshaw down on our heads. Maybe he's heard that bull
voice of yours already!"

It was a master stroke. The mention of the terrible skipper and the
skillful insinuation that he was one of them, made them straighten and
stare at him.

"Go guard the door," said Hovey to one of his sailors, "an' see that
none of the mates is near. Now, Harrigan, what d'you mean? You'd hear
no word of mutiny when I talked to you. Speak for your life now,
because we're hard to convince."

"We can't be convinced," said Garry Cochrane, "but maybe it'll be fun
to hear him talk before we dump him overboard."

Instead of answering the speaker, Harrigan looked upon Hovey with a
cold eye of scorn.

He said: "I changed my mind. I'm _not_ one of you. I thought the bos'n
was a real captain for the gang, but I'll not follow a dog that lets
every one of his pack yelp."

"I'm a dog, am I?" snarled Hovey furiously. "I'll teach you what I am,
Harrigan. An' you, Cochrane, keep your face shut. I'll learn you who's
boss of this little crew!"

"If you're half the man you seem," went on Harrigan, "this game looks
good to me."

"You lie," said the bos'n. "You turned me down cold when I talked to
you."

"You fool, that was because you said no word outright of wipin' out the
officers an' takin' control of the ship. You sneaked up to me in the
dark; you felt me out before you said a word; you were like a cat
watchin' a rathole. Am I a rat? Am I a sneak? Do I have to be whispered
to? No, I'm Harrigan, an' anyone who wants to talk to me has got to
speak out like a man!"

The very impudence of his speech held them in check for another
precious moment. He whirled the heavy stool.

"If you wanted me, why didn't you come an' say: 'Harrigan, I know you.
You hate Henshaw an' McTee an' the rest. We're goin' to wipe 'em out
an' beach the ship. Are you with us?' Why, then I'd of shook hands with
you, and that would end it. But when you come whisperin' and
insinuatin', sayin' nothin' straight from the shoulder, how'd I know
you weren't sent by Henshaw to feel me out, eh? How do any of you know
the bos'n ain't feelin' you out for the skipper he's sailed with ten
years?"

The circle shifted, loosened; half the men were facing Hovey with
suspicious eyes. They had not thought of this greater danger, and the
bos'n was desperate in the crisis.

"Boys," he pleaded, "are you goin' to let one stranger ball up our
game? Are you goin' to start doubtin' me on his say-so?"

The men glanced from him to Harrigan. Plainly they were deep in doubt,
and the Irishman made his second masterful move. He stepped forward,
dropping his stool with a crash to the floor, and clapped a hand upon
Hovey's shoulder.

"I spoke too quick," he said frankly, "but you got me mad, bos'n. I
know you're straight, an' I'm with you, for one. A man Harrigan will
toiler ought to be good enough for the rest, eh?"

Jerry Hovey wiped his gleaming forehead. The kingdom of his ambition
was rebuilt by this speech.

"Sit down, boys," he ordered. "The last man in the forecastle is with
us now. We're solid. Sit down and we'll plan our game."

The plan, as it developed after the circle re-formed, was a simple one.
They were to wait until the ship was within two or three days' voyage
from the coast of Central America--their destination--and then they
would act. They had secured to their side the firemen and the first
assistant engineer. That meant that they could run the ship safely with
the bos'n, who understood navigation, at the wheel. They would select a
night, and then, on the command of Hovey, the men would take the arms
which they had prepared.

One of the Japanese cabin boys, Kamasura, was a member of the plot. He
would furnish butcherknives and cleavers from the kitchen. Besides
this, there were various implements which could be used as bludgeons;
and finally there were the pocketknives with which every sailor is
always equipped, generally stout, long-bladed instruments. The
advantage of firearms was with the officers of the ship, but apparently
there were no rifles and probably very few revolvers aboard. Against
powder and lead they would have the advantage of a surprise attack.

First, Sam Hall and Kyle were to go down to the hole of the ship and
lead the firemen in their attack upon the oilers and wipers, most of
whom had not been approachable with the plan of mutiny because they
were newly signed on the ship. In this part of the campaign the most
important feature would be the capturing of Campbell, who would be
reserved for a finely drawn-out, tortured death. The firemen had
insisted upon this.

In the meantime Hovey with Flint and the rest would attack the cabins
of Henshaw, McTee, and the mates. Here they depended chiefly upon the
effect of the surprise. If it were possible, Henshaw also was to be
taken alive and reserved for a long death like Campbell. This done,
they would lead the ship to an uninhabited part of the shore, beach
her, and scatter over the mainland, each with his share of the booty.

Harrigan forced himself to take an active part in the discussion of the
plans. Several features were his own suggestion, among others the idea
of presenting a petition for better food to Henshaw, and beating him
down while he was reading it; but all the time that the Irishman spoke,
he was thinking of Kate.

When the crew turned into their bunks at last, he went over a thousand
schemes in his head. In the first place he might go to Henshaw at once
and warn him of the coming danger, but he remembered what the bos'n had
said--in such a case he would not be believed, and both the crew and
the commander would be against him.

Finally it seemed to him that the best thing was to wait until the
critical moment had arrived. He could warn the captain just in time--or
if absolutely necessary he could warn McTee, who would certainly
believe him. In the meantime there were possibilities that the mutiny
would come to nothing through internal dissension among the crew. In
any case he must play a detestable part, acting as a spy upon the crew
and pretending enthusiasm for the mutiny.

With that shame like a taste of soot in his throat, he climbed to the
bridge the next morning with his bucket of suds and his brush, and
there as usual he found McTee, cool and clean in the white outfit of
Henshaw. At sight of the Scotchman he remembered at once that he must
pretend the double exhaustion which comes of pain and hard labor.
Therefore he thrust out his lower jaw and favored McTee with a glare of
hate. He was repaid by the glow of content which showed in the
captain's face.

"And the hole of the _Heron_," he said, speaking softly lest his voice
should carry to the man in the wheelhouse, "is it cooler than the
fireroom of the _Mary Rogers?_"

Harrigan glanced up, glowering.

"Damn you, McTee!"

"The palms of your hands, lad, are they raw? Is the lye of the suds
cool to them?"

Another black glance came in reply and McTee leaned back against the
rail, tapping one contented toe against the floor.

"It was a fine tale you told me yesterday, Harrigan," he said at
length, "but afterward I saw Kate, and she was never kinder. I spoke of
you, and we laughed together about it. She said you were like a horse
that's too proud--you need the whip!"

Harrigan was in doubt, but he concealed his trouble with a mighty
effort and smiled.

"That's a weak lie, Angus. When I was a boy of ten, I would of hung me
head for shame if I could not have made a better lie. Shall I tell you
what really happened when you met Kate? You came up smilin' an'
grinnin' like a baboon, an' she passed you by with a look that went
through you as if you were just a cloud on the edge of the sky. Am I
right, McTee?"

"You've seen her, and she's told you this," exclaimed the captain.

Harrigan chuckled his triumph and went on with the scrubbing of the
bridge.

"No, Angus, me dear, I've not seen her, but when two souls are as close
as hers and mine--well, cap'n, I leave it to you!"

McTee ground his teeth with rage and turned his back on the worker for
a moment until he could master the contorted muscles of his face.

"Tut, McTee," went on the Irishman, "you've but felt the tickle of the
spur; when I drive it in, you'll yell like a whipped kid. Always you
play into me hands, McTee. Now when you see Kate, you'll feel me grin
in the background mockin' ye, eh?"

The banter gave the captain a shrewd inspiration. He leaned, and
catching one of Harrigan's hands with a quick movement, turned it palm
up. It was as he suspected; the palm, though red from the effect of the
strong suds and still scarcely healed after the torment of the _Mary
Rogers_, was nevertheless manifestly unharmed by the labor which it was
supposed Harrigan had performed the day before. The hand was wrenched
away and a balled fist held under McTee's nose.

"If you're curious, Angus, look at me knuckles, not me palm. It's the
knuckles you'll feel the most, cap'n."




CHAPTER 22


But McTee, deep in thought, was walking from the bridge. He went
straight to the hole of the ship and questioned some of the firemen,
and they told him that Harrigan had done no work passing coal the day
before; Campbell, it appeared, had taken him for some special job. With
this tidings the Scotchman hastened back to Henshaw.

"The game's slipping through our hands, captain," he said.

"Harrigan?" queried Henshaw.

"Aye. He didn't pass a shovelful of coal in the hole yesterday."

"Tut, tut," answered the other with a wave of the hand. "I sent orders
to Campbell, and told him what sort of a man he could expect to find in
Harrigan."

"I've just talked to the firemen. They say that Harrigan didn't handle
a single pound of coal. That ought to be final."

Henshaw went black.

"It may be so. I've given more rope to old Campbell than to any man
that ever sailed the seas with White Henshaw, and it may be he's using
the rope now to hang himself. We'll find out, McTee; we'll find out!
Where's Harrigan now?"

"Gone below a while ago after he finished scrubbing down the bridge."

"We'll speak with Douglas. Come along, McTee. There's nothing like
discipline on the high seas."

He went below, murmuring to himself, with McTee close behind him.
Strange sounds were coming from the room of the chief engineer, sounds
which seemed much like the strumming of a guitar.

"He's playing his songs," grinned Henshaw, and he chuckled noiselessly.
"Listen! We'll give him something to sing about--and it'll be in
another key. Ha-ha!"

He tasted the results of his disciplining already, but just as he
placed his hand on the knob of the door, another sound checked him and
made him turn with a puzzled frown toward McTee. It was a ringing
baritone voice which rose in an Irish love song.

"What the devil--" began Henshaw.

"You're right," nodded McTee. "It's the devil--Harrigan. Open the
door!"

The captain flung it open, and they discovered the two worthies seated
at ease with a black bottle and two glasses at hand. Campbell, in the
manner of a musical critic of some skill, leaned back in a chair with
his brawny arms folded behind his head and his eyes half closed.
Harrigan, tilted back in a chair, rested his feet on the edge of a
small table and swept the guitar which lay on his lap. In the midst of
a high note he saw the ominous pair standing in the door, and the music
died abruptly on his lips.

He rose to his feet and nudged Campbell at the same time. The latter
opened his eyes and, glimpsing the unwelcome visitors, sprang up,
gasping, stammering.

"What? Come in! Don't be standing there, Cap'n Henshaw. Come in and sit
down!"

In spite of his bluster his red face was growing blotched with patches
of gray. Harrigan, less moved than any of the others, calmly replaced
the guitar in its green cloth case.

"I sent this fellow down to be put at hard work," said Henshaw, and
waited.

It was obvious to Harrigan that the chief engineer was in mortal fear.
He himself felt strangely ill at ease as he looked at White Henshaw
with his skin yellow as Egyptian papyrus from a tomb.

"Just a minute, captain," began the engineer. "You sent Harrigan down
to the hole because he's considered a hard man to handle, eh?"

Henshaw waited for a fuller explanation; he seemed to be enjoying the
distress of Campbell.

"Just so," went on the Scotchman, "but there are two ways of handling a
difficult sailor. One is by using the club and the other by using
kindness. The club has been tried and hasn't worked very well with
Harrigan. I decided to take a hand with kindness. The results have been
excellent. I was just about--"

His voice died away, for McTee was chuckling in a deep bass rumble, and
Henshaw was smiling in a way that boded no good.

The captain broke in coldly: "I've heard enough of your explanation,
Campbell. Send Harrigan down to the hole at once. We'll work him a
double shift today, for a starter."

Campbell was trembling like a self-conscious girl, for he was drawn
between shame and dread of the captain.

"Look!" he cried, and taking the hand of Harrigan, he turned it palm
up. "This chap has been brutally treated. He's been at work that fairly
tore the skin from the palms of his hands. One hour's work with a
shovel, captain, would make Harrigan useless at any sort of a job for a
month."

"Which goes to show," said McTee, "that you don't know Harrigan."

"I've heard what you have to say," said Henshaw. "I sent him down to
work in the hole; I come down and find him singing in your room. I
expect you to have him passing coal inside of fifteen minutes,
Campbell."

Harrigan started for the door, feeling that the game had been played
out, and glad of even this small respite of a day or more from the
labor of the shovel. Before he left the room, however, the voice of
Campbell halted him.

"Wait! Stay here! You'll do what I tell you, Harrigan. I'm the boss
belowdecks."

It was a declaration of war, and what it cost Campbell no one could
ever tell. He stood swaying slightly from side to side, while he glared
at Henshaw.

"You're drunk," remarked the captain coldly. "I'll give you half an
hour, Campbell, to come to your senses--but after that--"

"Damn you and your time! I want no tune! I say the lad has been put
through hell and shan't go back to it, do you hear me?"

Henshaw was controlling himself carefully, or else he wished to draw
out the engineer.

He said: "You know the record of Harrigan?"

"What record? The one McTee told you? Would you believe what Black
McTee says of a man he tried to break and couldn't?"

"My friend McTee is out of the matter. All that you have to do with is
my order. You've heard that order, Campbell!"

"I'll see you in hell before I send him to the hole."

Henshaw waited another moment, quietly enjoying the wild excitement of
the engineer like the Spanish gentleman who sits in safety in the
gallery and watches the baiting of the bull in the arena below.

"I shall send that order to you in writing. If you refuse to obey then,
I shall act!"

He turned on his heel; McTee stayed a moment to smile upon Harrigan,
and then followed. As the door closed, Harrigan turned to Campbell and
found him sitting, shuddering, with his face buried in his hands. He
touched the Scotchman on the shoulder.

"You've done your part, chief. I won't let you do any more. I'm
starting now for the hole."

"What?" bellowed Campbell. "Am I no longer the boss of my engine room?
You'll sit here till I tell you to move! Damn Henshaw and his written
orders!"

"If you refuse to obey a written order, he can take your license away
from you in any marine court."

"Let it go."

"Ah-h, chief, ye're afther bein' a thrue man an' a bould one, but I'd
rather stay the rest av me life in the hole than let ye ruin yourself
for me. Whisht, man, I'm goin'! Think no more av it!"

Campbell's eyes grew moist with the temptation, but then the fighting
blood of his clan ran hot through his veins.

"Sit down," he commanded. "Sit down and wait till the order comes. It's
a fine thing to be chief engineer, but it's a better thing to be a man.
What does Bobbie say?"

And he quoted in a ringing voice: "A man's a man for a' that!"
Afterward they sat in silence that grew more tense as the minutes
passed, but it seemed that Henshaw, with demoniac cunning, had decided
to prolong the agony by delaying his written order and the consequent
decision of the engineer. And Harrigan, watching the suffused face of
Campbell, knew that the time had come when his will would not suffice
to make him follow the dictates of his conscience.

All of which Henshaw knew perfectly well as he sat in his cabin filling
the glass of McTee with choice Scotch.

They sat for an hour or more, chatting, and McTee drew a picture of the
pair waiting below in silent dread--a picture so vivid that Henshaw
laughed in his breathless way. In time, however, he decided that they
had delayed long enough, and took up pen and paper to write the order
which was to convince the dauntless Campbell that even he was a slave.
As he did so, Sloan, the wireless operator, appeared at the door,
saying: "The report has come, sir."




CHAPTER 23


He held a little folded paper in his hand. At sight of it Henshaw
turned in his chair and faced Sloan with a wistful glance.

"Good?"

"Not very, sir."

Henshaw rose slowly and frowned like the king on the messenger who
bears tidings of the lost battie.

"Then very bad?"

"I'm afraid so."

"Very well. Let me have the message. You may go."

He took the slip of paper cautiously, as if it were dangerous in
itself, and then called back the operator as the latter reached the
door.

"Come back a minute. Sloan, you're a good boy--a very good boy.
Faithful, intelligent; you know your business. H-m! Here--here's a five
spot"--he slipped the money into Sloan's hand--"and you shall have more
when we touch port. Now this message, my lad--you couldn't have made
any mistake in receiving it? You couldn't have twisted any of the words
a little?"

"No mistake, I'm sure, sir. It was repeated twice."

"That makes it certain, then--certain," muttered Henshaw. "That is all,
Sloan."

As the latter left the cabin, the old captain went back to his chair
and sat with the paper resting upon his knee, as if a little delay
might change its import.

"I am growing old, McTee," he said at last, apologetically, "and age
affects the eyes first of all. Suppose you take this message, eh? And
read it through to me--slowly--I hate fast reading, McTee."

The big Scotchman took the slip of paper and read with a long pause
between each word:

_Beatrice--failing--rapidly--hemorrhage--this--morning--very--weak._

The paper was snatched from his hand, and Henshaw repeated the words
over and over to himself: "Weak--failing--hemorrhage--the fools! A
little bleeding at the nose they call a hemorrhage!"

McTee broke in: "A good many doctors are apt to make a case seem more
serious than it is. They get more credit that way for the cure, eh?"

"God bless you, lad! Aye, they're a lot of damnable curs! Burning at
sea--death by fire at sea! He was right! The old devil was right! Look,
McTee! I'm safe on my ship; I'm rich; but still I'm burning to death in
the middle of the ocean."

He shook the Scotchman by his massive shoulder.

"Go get Sloan--bring him here!"

McTee rose.

"No! Don't let me lay eyes on him--he brought me this! Go yourself
and carry him a message to send. The doctors are letting her die;
they think she has no money. Send them this message:

"_Save Beatrice at all costs. Call in the greatest doctors. I will pay
all bills ten times over._

"Quick! Why are you waiting here? You fool! Run! Minutes mean life or
death to her!"

McTee hastened back to the wireless house in the after-part of the
ship. To Sloan he gave the message, even exaggerating it somewhat.
After it was sent, he said: "Look here, my boy, do you realize that
it's dangerous to bring the captain messages like that last one you
carried to him?"

"Do I know it? I should say I do! Once the old boy jumped at me like
a tiger because I carried in a bad report."

"Could you make up a false message?"

"It's against the law, sir."

"It's not against the law to keep a man from going crazy."

"Crazy?"

"I mean what I say. Henshaw is balancing on the ragged edge of
insanity. Mark my words! If the news comes of his granddaughter's
death, he'll fall on the other side. Why can't you give him some hope
in the meantime? Suppose you work up something this afternoon like
this: 'Beatrice rallying rapidly. Doctor's much more hopeful.' What do
you say?"

"Crazy!" repeated the wireless operator, fascinated. "If the old man
loses his reason, we're all in danger."

"He's on the verge of it. I know something of this subject. I've
studied it a lot. A common sign is when one fancy occupies a man's
brain. Henshaw has two of them. One is what an old soothsayer told him:
that he would die by fire at sea; the other is his love for this girl.
Between the two, he's in bad shape. Remember that he's an old man."

"You're right, sir; and I'll do it. It may not be legal, but we can't
stop for law in a case like this."

McTee nodded and went back to Henshaw, whom he found walking the cabin
with a step surprisingly elastic and quick.

"Go back and send another message," he called. "I made a mistake. I
didn't send one that was strong enough. They may not understand. What I
should have said was--"

"I made it twice as strong as the way you put it," said McTee; and he
repeated his phrasing of the message with some exaggeration.

The lean hand of the captain wrung his.

"You're a good lad, McTee--a fine fellow. Stand by me. You'd never
guess how my brain is on fire; the old devil of a soothsayer was right.
But that message you sent will bring those deadheaded doctors to life.
Ah, McTee, if I were only there for a minute in spirit, I could restore
her to life--yes, one minute!"

"Of course you could. But in the meantime, for a change of thought,
suppose you finish that order you were about to write out and send to
Campbell."

"What order?"

"About Harrigan."

"Who the devil is Harrigan?"

McTee drew a deep breath and answered quietly: "The man you ordered to
work in the hole. Here's the paper and your pen."

He placed them in the hands of the captain, but the latter held them
idly.

"It's the frail ones who are carried off by the white plague. Am I
right?"

"No, you're wrong. The frail ones sometimes have a better chance than
the husky people. Look at the number of athletes who are carried away
by it!"

"God bless you, McTee!"

"The strength that counts is the strength of spirit, and this girl has
your own fighting spirit."

"Do you think so?"

"Yes; I saw it in her eyes."

Henshaw shook his head sadly.

"No; they're the eyes of her grandmother, and she had no fighting
spirit. I think I married her more for pity than for love. Her
grandmother died by that same disease, McTee."

The latter gave up the struggle and spent an hour soothing the excited
old man. When he managed to escape, he went up and down the deck
breathing deeply of the fresh air. For the moment Harrigan was safe,
but it would not be long before he would force Henshaw to deliver the
order. Into this reverie broke the voice of Jerry Hovey.

"Beg your pardon, Captain McTee."

The Scotchman turned to the bos'n with the smile still softening his
stern lips.

"Well?" he asked good-naturedly.

"Let me have half a dozen words, sir."

"A thousand, bos'n. What is it?"

Now, Hovey remembered what Harrigan had said about coming straight to
the point, and he appreciated the value of the advice. Particularly in
speaking to a man like McTee, for he recognized in the Scotchman some
of the same strong, blunt characteristics of Harrigan.

"Every man who's sailed the South Seas knows Captain McTee," he began.

"None of that, lad. If you know me, you also know that I'm called Black
McTee--and for a reason."

"More than that, sir, we know that whatever men say of you, your word
has always been good."

"Well?"

"I'm going to ask you to give me your word that what I have to say, if
it doesn't please you, will go out one ear as fast as it goes in the
other."

"You have my word."

"And maybe your hand, sir?"

McTee, stirred by curiosity, shook hands.

Hovey began: "Some of us have sailed a long time and never got much in
the pocket to show for it."

"Yes, that's true of me."

"But there's none of us would turn our backs on the long green?"

McTee grinned.

"Well, sir, I have a little plan. Suppose you knew an old man--a man so
old, sir, that he was sure to die in a year or so. And suppose he had
one heir--a girl who was about to die--"

"Mutiny, bos'n," said McTee coldly.

But the eye of Hovey was fully as cold; he knew his man.

"Well?" he queried.

"Talk ahead. I've given you my word to keep quiet."

"Suppose this old man had a lot of money. Would it be any crime--any
great crime to slip a little of that long green into our pockets?"

Two pictures were in McTee's mind--one of the safe piled full of gold,
and the other of the half-crazed old skipper with his dying
granddaughter. After all, it was only a matter of months before Henshaw
would be dead, for certainly he would not long survive the death of
Beatrice. Even a small portion of that hoard would enable him to leave
the sea--to woo Kate as she must be wooed before he could win her.
Golden would be the veil with which he could blind her eyes to the
memory of Harrigan after he had removed the Irishman from his path.

"Very well, bos'n. I understand what you mean. I've seen the inside of
that safe in the cabin. Now I come straight to the point. Why do you
talk with me?"

"Because I need a man like you."

"To lead the mutiny?"

"Tell me first, are you with us?"

"Who are us?"

"You'll have to speak first."

"I'm with you."

"Now I'll tell you. The whole forecastle is hungry for the end of White
Henshaw. Your share of the money is whatever you want to make it. You
can have all my part; what I want is the sight of Henshaw crawlin' at
our feet."

"You're a good deal of a man, Hovey. Henshaw has put you in his school,
and now you're about to graduate, eh? But why do you want me? What
brought you to me?"

"I thought I didn't need you a while ago; now I have to have somebody
stronger than I am. I was the king of the bunch yesterday; but the last
man we took into our plan proved to be stronger than I am."

"Who?"

"Harrigan."

McTee straightened slowly and his eyes brightened. Hovey went on:
"Before he'd been with us ten minutes, the rest of the men in the
forecastle were looking up to him. He has the reputation. He won it by
facing you and Henshaw at the same time. Now the lads listen to me, but
they keep their eyes on Harrigan. I know what that means. That's why I
come here and offer the leadership to you."

McTee was thinking rapidly.

"A plan like this is fire, bos'n, and I have an idea I might burn my
fingers unless you have enough of the crew with you. If you have
Harrigan, it certainly means that you have a majority of the rest."

Hovey grinned: "Aye, you know Harrigan."

The insinuation made McTee hot, but he went on seriously: "If you could
make me sure that you have Harrigan, I'd be one of you."

"What proof do you want?"

"None will do except the word out of his own mouth. Listen! Along about
four bells this afternoon I'll find some way of sending Miss Malone out
of her cabin. Then I'll go in there and wait. Bring Harrigan close to
that door at that tune and make him talk about the mutiny. Can you do
it?"

"But why the room of the girl?"

"You're stupid, Hovey. Because if you talked outside of the cabin where
I sleep--that being the office of Henshaw--he'd hear you as well as I
would."

"Then I'll bring him to the door of the girl's cabin. At four bells?"

"Right."

"After that we'll talk over the details, sir?"

"We will. And keep away from me, Hovey. If Henshaw sees me talking with
members of his crew, he might begin to think--and any of his thinking
is dangerous for the other fellow."

The bos'n touched his cap.

"Aye, aye, sir. You can begin hearin' the chink of the money, and I
begin to see White Henshaw eatin' dirt. With Black McTee--excusin' the
name, sir--to lead us, there ain't nothin' can stop us."




CHAPTER 24


He went off toward the forecastle hitching at his trousers and
whistling an old English song of the Spanish Main. As for Black McTee,
he remained staring after Hovey with a rising thought of perjury. The
loot of the _Heron_ was a deep temptation, and his pledged word to the
bos'n was a strong bond, for as Hovey had said, the honor of Black
McTee, in spite of his other failings, was respected throughout the
South Seas. For one purpose, however, he would have sacrificed all
hopes of plunder and a thousand plighted words, and that purpose was
the undoing of Harrigan in the eyes of Kate.

She had grown into a necessity to him. Though were she twice as
beautiful, he would never have paid her the dangerous honor of a second
glance under ordinary conditions, but their life together on the island
and his rivalry with Harrigan for her sake had made her infinitely dear
to him.

Seeing the opportunity to destroy all her respect for Harrigan, he
schemed instantly to betray his word to Hovey. Like Harrigan earlier in
the day, he had no purpose to reveal the planned mutiny at once. The
Irishman waited because he did not know to whom he could confide the
dangerous information; McTee delayed in the hope of nipping
insurrection in the bud at the very instant when it was about to
flower. It would be far more spectacular. Moreover, he saw in this a
manner of enlisting Kate on his side.

Shortly before four bells in the afternoon he went to her cabin and
knocked at the door. When she opened it to him, she stood with one hand
upon the knob, blocking the way and waiting silently for an explanation
of his coming. That quiet coldness banished from his mind the speech
which he had prepared.

He said at last: "Kate, I want you to talk with me for a few minutes."

She considered him seriously--without fear, but with such a deep
distrust that he was startled. He had not dreamed that matters had
progressed as far as that. At length she stepped back, and without a
word beckoned him to come inside. He entered and then his eyes raised
and met her glance with such a deep, still yearning that she was
startled. No woman can see the revelation of a man's love without being
moved to the heart.

She said: "You are in trouble, Angus?"

The hunger of his eyes came full in her face.

"Aye, trouble."

"And you have come to me--" she asked; and before she could finish her
sentence, McTee broke in, pleadingly:

"For help."

He saw her lips part, her eyes brighten; he knew it was his despair
which was winning her.

"Tell me!" And she made a little gesture with both hands toward him.

"I have seen it for days. I have lost all hope of you, Kate."

Her glance wandered slightly, and his hope increased.

"Because of Harrigan," he said.

She was remembering what Harrigan had said: "How to stop McTee? Make
yourself old and your skin yellow, and your hair gray, and take the
spring out of your step."

"Why do you keep the whip over him, Angus? He has saved your life, and
you his. Why will you not treat him as one strong and generous man
would treat another?"

"Because I love you, Kate."

"Angus, would you stop if you knew I loved him?"

"Is that a fair question, Kate? Even if you said you loved him, I could
not stop, because I would have to do my best to save you from
yourself."

She looked her query silently.

"He is not worthy of you, Kate. Because he seems generous and simple,
do not be deceived. He is capable of things which even Black McTee
would turn from. I know it, for I know his type. But I, Kate--your head
is turned; do you hear me?"

She rose and cried: "Why have you both thought from the first that I
must choose between you? Are there no other men in the whole world?"

He answered doggedly: "You will never find another who will love you as
we do. To one of us you must finally belong."

"And that is why you go ahead with your schemes to torture Harrigan,
certain that when he is finished I will be helpless?"

"No, I am certain of nothing. But I am absolutely sure that Harrigan
stands between you and me, and I will have him done for."

"Let me think, Angus. You have pulled my old world about my ears, and
now I am trying to build another kingdom where force is the only god.
Can there be such a place?"

Four bells sounded. He wondered if Hovey would bring Harrigan at the
time they had agreed upon. And she stood with her hands pressed against
her eyes, trembling.

"In one thing at least you spoke the truth, Angus. There are only two
men left for me in the world. I must choose between you and Harrigan."

"Until that time comes, I must fight for you, Kate, in the only way I
know how to fight--with both my hands, trying to kill the things that
stand between us--Hush!"

For he heard the rumble of two deep voices near the door.




CHAPTER 25


Kate and McTee both stood frozen with attention, for one of the voices
was Harrigan's, saying: "And why the devil have you brought me away up
here, bos'n?"

"Because we have to watch sharp, Harrigan. There are some of the lads
we can't trust too far, and they mustn't overhear us when we talk."

"Why, Hovey, they can hear us inside the cabin."

"She cannot. This is the girl's cabin, and I saw her go out a while
ago."

"Well, then, what is it you want to know?"

"I'll tell you, man to man. When you said you were with us last night,
I've been thinking you might have said it for fear of the lads."

"Hovey, you're thick in the head. Didn't you hear me talk?"

"I did, and I may be thick in the head, but I can't rest easy till you
give me your hand and tell me you're playin' straight with us. You were
backward at first, Harrigan."

There was an instant of pause, and then Harrigan answered: "I can't
take your hand, Hovey."

McTee set his teeth. To have his plans upset when all so far had gone
with perfect smoothness was maddening.

"Why not?" asked Hovey sharply.

"It's just a queer hunch I've always had. I don't like the idea of
takin' any oath. I'm a man of action, Hovey. When the night comes, give
me a club, and you'll see where I stand!"

There was a subdued, purring danger in his voice which made Kate
tremble. Evidently it convinced Hovey.

"I guess you're right, Harrigan. I don't want to doubt you; God knows
we got a need for men like you when the time comes. The other lads
think there'll be nothin' to it, but I know Henshaw--I _know_!"

"It'll be a hard nut to crack. I don't make any mistake about that,"
said Harrigan; "but if we work cool and with a rush, we'll sweep them
off their feet."

"Now you're talkin'," said Hovey. "Speed is the thing we want most.
Speed, and no quarter."

"You'll need no urging for that. The boys are all set to kill. Have the
officers many revolvers?"

"Not many. Salvain has one, and so has Henshaw. I don't think the rest
pack any. Harrigan, I've got a weight off my mind, knowing that you're
sure with us. And you'll get any share of the loot you want to name."

There was another brief pause.

"I'm easy satisfied," said Harrigan. "What I want is that the girl who
has this cabin--Kate Malone--should be handled with gloves."

"Ah, there speaks the Irish!"

"I want the care of her to fall to my hands."

"Aye, you could have ten like her, as far as I'm concerned."

"Then I'm your man, Hovey. There comes one of the mates. Let's move
on."

"Right-o, lad."

Their voices retreated, and after a time McTee looked down at Kate. She
was dazed, as if someone had struck her in the face.

"What does it mean, Angus?"

"Wasn't it plain? Mutiny!"

She struck her hand sharply across her forehead with a little moan.

"I warned you, Kate, that he was capable of anything, but I never
dreamed of a proof coming as quickly as this."

"I can't believe it; I won't believe it."

He shrugged his shoulders.

"Why should I blame him?" he said. "He sees a way to get you. I could
almost sink as low as that myself--but not quite--not quite! I know
something of mutinies at sea. Have you noticed the fellows who are in
this crew?"

"I don't know--yes--I'm too sick to remember a single face except one
scar-faced man."

"On the whole they're the roughest lot I've ever seen cooped up
together. If they should be turned loose, they would make a shambles of
this ship--a red shambles, Kate!"

There was not a trace of color in her face. She watched him with a
horrified fascination.

"Of course," he went on easily, "I'll be the first one to go down.
Harrigan would see to that. Well, it would be a worthwhile fight--while
I lasted!"

"It can never take place!" she said desperately. "You are forewarned.
Tell Captain Henshaw at once, and--"

He raised his hand solemnly.

"You must not do that, Kate. You must promise me not to speak a word on
the subject until I have given you leave."

"I will promise you anything--but why not speak of it at once? I feel
as if we were standing over a--a magazine of powder!"

"We are--only worse. But it would be madness to warn Henshaw now. He is
unnerved--almost insane. His granddaughter, for whom he had made all
his fortune and to whom he is going in the States--"

"Yes, Salvain told me. She is dying; it is pitiful, Angus, but--"

"He must not be told. He would start with the hand of iron, and the
first act of violence which he committed would be the touch of fire
which would set off this powder magazine. No, we must wait. Perhaps in
a little time I may be able to win over one of the mutineers and from
him learn all their plans, and then turn the tables on them. But I must
first know all the men who are concerned in the uprising. When we _do_
move--shall I spare Harrigan, Kate?"

He tried to ask it frankly, but a devil of malice was in his eyes.

"I don't know--I can't think! Angus, what did Dan mean?"

"I warned you of what he was capable," he said.

She caught his hands, stammering: "You are all that is left to me. You
will stand between me and danger, Angus? You will protect me? But wait!
I could go to Harrigan. I _know_ that if I plead with him, I can win
him away from the mutineers!"

"Kate, you are hysterical! Don't you see that a man who is capable of
planning a wholesale murder in the night would be quite able to lie to
you? No, no! Whatever you do, you must promise me not to speak a word
of this to anyone, most of all, to Harrigan."

"I will promise anything--I will do anything. It all rests with you,
Angus."

"And when we strike at the mutineers--if Harrigan falls, will you
absolve me of his death, Kate?"

She was terribly moved, standing stiff and straight and helpless like a
child about to be punished.

"Angus, for the sake of pity, do not ask me."

"I must know."

"Angus," came her broken voice, "I _cannot_ give up my faith in him."

His face grew as dark as night, but he laid a gentle hand on her
shoulder and said: "Your mind is distraught. You shall have time to
think this over; but remember, Kate, we must fight fire with fire, and
the time has come when you must choose between us."

And then, very wisely, he slipped from the room.




CHAPTER 26


On the promenade outside he met Sloan, the wireless operator, on his
way to Captain Henshaw's cabin with a slip of paper in his hand. Sloan
winked at him broadly.

"The good news has come, sir," he grinned. "Take a look at this!"

And McTee eagerly read the typewritten slip.

_Beatrice is rallying. Doctors have decided effusion of blood was not
hemorrhage. Opinion now very hopeful._

"Will that bring the old boy around for a while?" asked Sloan.

"He'll slip you a twenty on the strength of that and give you a drink
as well," said McTee.

They reached the cabin and entered together to find that White Henshaw
lay on the couch in the corner. His physical strength was apparently
exhausted, and one long, lean arm dangled to the floor. At sight of the
dreaded wireless operator with the message in his hand, his yellow face
turned from yellow to pale ivory. He rose and supported himself with
one hand against the wall, scowling as if he dared them to notice his
weakness.

"Good news!" called Sloan cheerily, and extended the paper.

The captain snatched the paper, his eyes were positively wolfish while
he devoured the message.

"Sloan--good lad," he stammered. "Stay by your instrument every minute,
my boy. Before night we'll have word that she's past all danger."

Sloan touched his cap and withdrew.

"Good news!" said McTee amiably. "I'm mighty glad to hear it, captain."

The old man fell back into a chair, holding the precious piece of paper
with its written lie in both trembling hands.

"Good news," he croaked. "Aye, McTee. You were right, lad! Those damned
doctors don't know their business. They're making the case out bad so
they'll get more credit for the cure. See how they're fooling with me--
and me with my heart on fire in the middle of the sea!"

His eyes wandered strangely in the midst of his exultation.

"That would be a strange death, eh, McTee--to burn in the middle of the
sea with a ship full of gold?"

The Scotchman shuddered.

"Forget that, man. You're not going to burn at sea. You're going to
reach port with all your gold and you're going to stand beside Beatrice
and say--"

Henshaw broke in: "And say, 'Beatrice, I've come to make you happy.
We'll leave this country where the fogs are so thick and the sun never
shines, and we'll go south, far south, where there's summer all the
year.' That's what I'll say!"

"Right," nodded McTee. "If her lungs are weak, that's the place to take
her."

Henshaw jerked erect in his chair. "Weak lungs? Who said she had weak
lungs? McTee, you're a fool! A little cold on the chest, that's all
that's the matter with the girl! The doctors have made the sickness--
they and their rotten medicines! And now they're making sport out of
White Henshaw. I'll skin them alive, I will!"

McTee lighted a cigar and nodded judiciously as he puffed it.

"Very good idea, Henshaw. If you want me to, I'll go along and help you
out."

"You're a brick, McTee. Maybe I'll need you. Getting old; not what I
used to be."

"I see you're not," said McTee boldly.

Henshaw scowled: "What do you mean?"

"That affair of Harrigan. He's still going scot-free, you know."

"Right! McTee, I'm getting feeble-minded, but I'll make up for lost
time."

He caught up pen and paper, while McTee drew a long breath of relief. A
moment later he was astonished to note that the captain had not written
a single letter.

"I'd forgotten," murmured Henshaw. "When I started to write that order
this morning--just as I was putting pen to paper--in came Sloan with
the message from the doctors saying that Beatrice was in a critical
situation. It may be, captain, that this message is bad luck for me,
eh?"

"Nonsense," said McTee easily, gripping his hand with rage, while he
fought to control his voice. "You mustn't let superstitions run away
with you."

"So! So!" frowned Henshaw. "You're a young man to give me advice,
McTee. I've followed superstitions all my life. I tell you there's
something in those star-gazing devils of the South Seas. They know
things that aren't in the books."

"What about the old fool who prophesied that you'd die by fire at sea?"

Henshaw shivered, and his eyes narrowed as he stared at McTee.

"How do you know he's an old fool, eh? We haven't reached port yet--not
by a long sight!"

"Well," said McTee, with a carefully assumed carelessness, "this ship
belongs to you--you're the skipper; but on a boat I was captain of, no
damned engineer would pull my beard and tell me to rightabout. They
never got away with a line of chatter like that when Black McTee was
speaking to them. Never!"

At this comparison the face of Henshaw grew marvelously evil.

"McTee," he said, "men step lively when you speak to them--but they
jump out of their skins when they hear White Henshaw's voice."

"That's what I've heard," said the other dauntlessly, "but d'you think
Campbell ever would have taken this chance if he didn't know you're not
what you used to be?"

For reply Henshaw set his teeth and dipped the pen into the ink. As he
poised it above the paper, Sloan appeared at the door calling: "One
minute, captain!"

The captain turned livid and rose slowly, crumpling the paper as he did
so and letting it drop to the floor.

"Out with it!" he muttered in a hoarse whisper. "She's worse again!
Damn you, McTee, I told you this message was bad luck!"

The wireless operator was much puzzled and glance from the Scotchman
to his skipper.

"I only wanted to know, sir, if you wish to send an answer
to this last wireless. Any congratulations?"

"No--get out!"

And as Sloan fled from the door with a wondering side glance at McTee,
Henshaw sank back into his chair, picked up the paper on which he was
about to write, and tore it into small bits. Not until this task was
finished was he able to speak to McTee.

"D'you see now? Is there nothing in my superstitions? Why, sir, just
holding that pen over this piece of damnable paper brought Sloan on
the run to my door. If I'd written a single word, he'd of had a message
from the doctors saying that Beatrice was dying. I know!"

"You really think," began McTee, and some of his furious impatience
crept into his voice--"you really think that writing on that piece of
paper with your pen would have brought in Sloan with a wireless message
from the mainland?"

Henshaw shook his head slowly.

"There's no use trying to explain these things," he said, "but
sometimes, McTee, there's a small voice that comes up inside of me and
tells me what to do and what not to do. When I first saw the picture of
Beatrice--that one where she's just a slip of a child--there was a
voice that said: 'Here's the spirit of your dead wife come back to
life. You must work for her and cherish her.' So I've done it. And
because I started to do it, the voice never left me. It warned me when
to put to sea and when to stay in port. It gave me a hint when to buy
and when to sell, and the result is that I'm rich--rich--rich. Gold in
my hand and gold in my brain, McTee!"

The Scotchman began to feel more and more that old age or his monomania
had shaken White Henshaw's reason, but he said bitterly: "And I
suppose, if that voice never fails you and if these South Seas natives
can read the future, that you are bound to burn at sea?"

"Damn you!" said Henshaw, terribly moved. "What devil keeps putting
that in your brain? Isn't it in mine all the day and all the night?
Don't I see hellfire in the dark? Don't I see the same flames, blue and
thin, dancing in the light of the sun at midday? Is the thing ever out
of my mind? Were you put on this ship to keep dinning the idea into my
ears? If there's something more than the life on earth, then there must
be a hell--and if there's a hell, then it's real hellfire that I see!"

He paused and pointed a gaunt, trembling arm at McTee:

"D'you understand? The men I've killed before they died--they send
their spirits here to walk beside me. They wait in the dark--and they
whisper in my ear!"

McTee swallowed hard and commenced to edge toward the door.

"Farley is always hanging around--Farley, as I saw him on the beach
that last time in his loincloth, with his pig eyes; sometimes he seems
to be begging me to take pity on him; sometimes he seems to be laughing
at me. And he's always got his hand outstretched. And Collins comes
stroking his beard in the way he had, and he keeps his hand stretched
out to me. What do they want? Alms! Alms! Alms! They want my soul for
alms to take it below and burn it in the hellfire--the thin, blue
flames!"

He stopped in the midst of his ravings and drew himself erect, a smile
of infinite cruelty on his lips.

"Let them all come with their damned, empty palms! They're ghosts, and
they cannot stop me so long as I follow the small voice that's inside
of me. They can't stop me, and I'll win back to Beatrice. There I'm
safe--safe! Her hands are thin and light and cool and as fragrant as
flowers. She'll lay them on my eyelids and I'll go to sleep! And the
ghosts will close their empty hands. Ha! McTee, d'you know aught of the
power of a woman's love?"

He stepped close to the burly Scotchman.

"Keep off," growled McTee. "I want none of you! There's poison in your
touch!"

He raised his hand like a guard, but two lean, thin hands,
incredibly strong, closed on his wrists.

"A woman's love," went on the old buccaneer of the South Seas, "is
stronger than armor plate to save the man she cares for. You can't see
it; you could never see it! But I tell you there are times when the
ghosts have come close to me, and then sometimes I've seen the shadows
of thin, small hands come in front of me and push them back. The hands
of Beatrice push them back, and they're helpless to harm me!"




CHAPTER 27


But McTee wrenched his arms away and fled out on the deck. He blundered
into Jerry Hovey, who started back at sight of him.

"What's happened, sir?" asked the bos'n. "Been seein' ghosts?"

"Damn you," growled McTee, "I had a nap and a bad dream--a hell of a
nightmare."

"You look it! You heard what Harrigan said? Does that sound as if I had
enough backing?"

"If the rest of them are as strong for it as Harrigan, it does."

"As strong for it as Harrigan? Between you and me--just a whisper in
your ear--I don't think Harrigan is half as strong for it as he talks.
I don't trust him, somehow."

"No?"

"Look here," said the bos'n cautiously. "We hear there was once some
trouble between you and Harrigan?"

"Well?"

"Would you waste much tune if somethin' was to happen to him--say in
the middle of the night, silent and unexpected?"

"I would not! Take him by the foot and heave him into the sea. Very
good idea, Hovey. Is he getting the eyes of the lads too much?"

Hovey fenced: "He's a landlubber, and he don't understand sea things.
He's better out of the way."

"How'll you do it?" asked McTee softly. "Speak out, Hovey. Would you
try your own hand on Harrigan?"

"Not me! I know a better way. There's one that's in the mutiny who has
a hand as strong as mine--almost--and a foot as silent as the paw of a
cat. I'll give him the tip."

"And now for the details of the attack," said McTee, anxious not to lay
too much stress upon the destruction of Harrigan.

"Here it is," answered Hovey, and entered into an elaborate description
of all their plans. McTee listened with faraway eyes. He heard the
words, but he was thinking of the death of Harrigan.

That invincible Irishman, after his talk with Hovey in front of the
cabin of Kate, returned to the cool room of the chief engineer. The
worthy Campbell, in wait for the ultimatum of White Henshaw, had been
fortifying himself steadily with liquor, and by the middle of the
afternoon he had reached a state in which he had no care for
consequences; he would have defied all the powers upon earth and beyond
it.

The next morning, as he went up to his usual task of scrubbing the
bridge, Harrigan thought he perceived a possible reason why his
persecution was being neglected. It was the picture of McTee and Kate
Malone leaning at the rail. McTee was content. There was no doubt of
that. He leaned above Kate and talked seriously down into her face.
Harrigan was mightily tempted to turn about and climb to the bridge
from the other side of the deck, but he made himself march on and begin
whistling a tune.

McTee raised his head instantly, and, staring at the Irishman, he
murmured a word to Kate, and she turned and regarded Harrigan with an
almost painful curiosity. He was about to swagger past her when she
shook off the detaining hand of McTee and ran to the Irishman.

"Dan," she said eagerly, and laid a hand on his arm.

"Come back, Kate," growled McTee. "You've promised me not to speak--"

"Did you promise him not to speak with me again?" broke in Harrigan.

"I only meant--" she began.

"It's little I care what you meant," said the Irishman coldly, and he
shook off her hand. "Go play with McTee. I want none of ye! After I've
slaved for ye an' saved ye from God knows what, ye dare to turn and
make them eyes cold and distant when ye look at me? Ah-h, get back to
McTee! I'm through with ye!"

She only insisted the more: "I _will_ speak to you, Dan!"

"Come away, Kate," urged McTee, grinding his teeth. "Doesn't this prove
what I told you?"

"I don't care what it proves," she said hotly. "Dan, I've been thinking
grisly things of you. I simply can't believe them now that I look you
in the face."

"Whisht!" said Harrigan, and his face was black. "Have you the right to
doubt me?"

She answered sadly: "I have, Dan."

The Irishman turned slowly away and started up for the bridge without
answer. As he went, he groaned beneath his breath: "Ochone! Ochone!
She's heard!"

He could not dream how she knew of the mutiny, but if it was carried
through, he was damned in her eyes forever. What she guessed McTee must
know. What McTee knew must be familiar to White Henshaw, yet Henshaw
could not know, for if he did, the ring-leaders would be instantly
clapped into irons. Once or twice he looked down from his work to Kate
and McTee. They still leaned at the rail, talking seriously.

And McTee was saying: "I have learned what I want to know. Every detail
of the plot is in my hands. Now I am going to the cabin of White
Henshaw and tell him everything. It's the simplest way. And you've
started a suspicion in the mind of Harrigan. He'll spread the word to
the rest of the mutineers, and they'll be on their watch against us."

She made a little gesture of appeal. "I couldn't help speaking to him,
Angus. Suspecting him of such a thing is like--is like suspecting
myself!"

"Let it go. It's done. Now I'm going up to see White Henshaw. The old
man will be crazy when he hears it."

He found the captain giving some orders to Salvain, and waited until
they were alone. Then he said: "There are about ten of us against the
rest of the crew of the ship. Can we hold them in case of a mutiny?"

He had planned this laconic statement carefully, expecting to see
Henshaw turn pale and stammer in terror. Instead, the captain regarded
McTee with quietly contemplative eyes.

"So," he murmured, "you've heard of the mutiny?"

The tables were completely turned on the Scotchman. He gasped: "You
have known all the time?"

"Certainly," said Henshaw; "I even know every word that Hovey said to
you."

McTee turned crimson.

"I have eyes that see everything on the ship," went on Henshaw, as if
he wished to cover the embarrassment of the Scotchman, "and I have ears
which hear everything. I have lines of information tangled through the
forecastle. I can almost guess what they are about to think, let alone
what they will speak or do. The blockheads are always planning a
mutiny, though I confess none of them have ever taken the proportions
of this one. However, this will go the way of the rest."

"The way of the rest?" queried McTee almost stupidly.

"Yes. They plan to hold their action till we're close to the land.
About that time I'll call up one or two of the ring-leaders and tell
them just what they have planned to do. That'll make them think I have
unknown means of meeting the mutiny. It will die."

McTee sat down, loosened his shirt at the throat, and gaped upon
Henshaw as a child might gape upon a magician.

"I don't blame you for taking a day to think over the temptation,"
smiled the old buccaneer. "The gold I showed you would have tempted any
man. But I'm glad you came to me. I expected you last night. It took
you a little longer to settle the details in your mind, eh?"

"Henshaw, I feel like a yellow dog!"

"Come! Come! You're a man after my own heart. You took the temptation
in your hand--you looked it over--and then you turned away from it.
Well, and suppose the mutiny should actually come to the breaking
point; they would be right in thinking I have means of fighting them. I
have no firearms on the ship; they know that. They don't know that I
have these."

He went into the next room and returned carrying a heavy box. This he
placed on the desk and took a small, heavy ball of metal from it.

"A bomb?" queried McTee.

"It is. The moment a group gathers, one of these tossed among them will
end the mutiny the moment it begins."

McTee handed back the bomb in silence. There was something about this
cold-blooded way of speaking of death which was not cruelty--it was
something greater--it was an absolute disregard of life.

"Of course," said Henshaw, as he came back from depositing the box in
the next room, "there are only half a dozen of those bombs, but that
will be enough. The explosion of a couple of them would just about
wreck the deck. However, the mutiny will never reach the point of
action. I'll see to that. What always ties the hands of the crew is
that it lacks real leaders. Hovey, for instance, will turn to water
when I say three words about the mutiny to him."

"But Harrigan," said McTee quietly, "will not."

"The Irishman!" Henshaw muttered. "I forgot. McTee, I'm getting old!"

"Only careless," answered the other, "but it's a bad thing to be
careless where Harrigan is concerned. A man like that, Henshaw, could
lead your mutineers, and lead them well. Hovey told me that every one
of the crew looks up to the Irishman."

"He's got to be crippled--or put out of the way," stated Henshaw
calmly. "I was a fool. I forgot about Harrigan."

"It may be," said McTee, "that he'll be put out of the way tonight."

"McTee, I begin to see that you have brains."

The latter waved the sinister compliment aside.

"Suppose the little--er--experiment fails? Doesn't it occur to you that
that message might be written out and sent to Campbell?"

The captain changed color, and his eyes shifted.

"I've told you--" he began.

"Nonsense," said McTee. "I'll write the thing, if you want, and all
you'll have to do is to sign it."

"Would that make any difference?" asked Henshaw wistfully.

"Of course," said McTee. "Here we go. You've got to do something to
tame Harrigan, captain, or there'll be the deuce to pay."

And as he spoke, he picked up pen and paper and began to write, Henshaw
in the meantime walking to the door in an agony of apprehension as if
he expected to see the dreaded figure of Sloan appear. McTee wrote:

_From Captain Henshaw to Chief Engineer Douglas Campbell

Sir:

On the receipt of this order, you will at once place Daniel Harrigan at
work passing coal, beginning this day with a double shift, and
continuing hereafter one shift a day.

(Signed)_

"Here you are, captain," he called, and Henshaw turned reluctantly from
the door and sat down at the table.

"Bad luck's in it," he muttered, "but something has to be done--
something has to be done!"

He wrote: "Captain Hensh--" but at this point the voice of Sloan spoke
from the open door.

"A message, captain."

With a choked cry Henshaw whirled and rose, supporting himself against
the edge of the table with both trembling hands. His accusing eyes were
on McTee.

"Sloan!" he called in his hoarse whisper at last, but still
his damning gaze held hard upon McTee.

The wireless operator advanced a step at a time into the room, placed
the written message on the edge of the table, and then sprang back as
if in mortal fear. Henshaw, still keeping his glance upon the Scotchman
with a terrible earnestness, picked up the sheet of paper on which he
had been signing his name, and tore it slowly, methodically, into small
strips. As the last of the small fragments fluttered to the floor, his
hand went out to the message Sloan had brought and drew it to his side.
He waved his arm in a sweeping gesture that commanded the other two
from his presence, and they slipped from the cabin without a word.




CHAPTER 28


"She's dead?" McTee asked softly when they stood on the promenade
outside.

"She is. She must have been dying at about the time I brought in that
other message--the one you told me to bring."

They avoided each other's eyes. Inside the cabin they heard a faint
sound like paper crumpled up. Then they caught a moan from the room--a
soft sound such as the wind makes when it hums around the corners of a
tall building.

They were silent for a time, listening with painful intentness. Not
another murmur came from the cabin. Sloan wiped his wet forehead and
whispered shakily: "I wouldn't mind it so much if he'd curse and rave.
But to sit like that, not making a sound--it ain't natural, Captain
McTee."

"Hush, you fool," said McTee. "White Henshaw is alone with his dead.
And it's me that he blames for it. I brought him the bad luck."

Sloan shuddered.

"Then I wouldn't have your name for ten thousand dollars, sir."

"If there's bad luck," said McTee solemnly, for every sailor has some
superstitious belief, "it's on the entire ship--on every one of the
crew as well as on me. We'll have to pay for this--all of us--and pay
high. We're apt to _feel_ it before long. And I've got to go back to
that cabin after a while!"

He spoke it as another man might say: "And an hour from now I have to
face the firing squad."

But when he returned to the cabin, he heard no outburst of reproaches
from White Henshaw. The door to Henshaw's bedroom was closed, and McTee
could hear the captain stirring about in it, working at some nameless
task over which he hummed continually, now and then breaking into
little snatches of song. McTee was stupefied. He tried to explain to
himself by imagining that Henshaw was one of those hard-headed men who
live for the present and never waste time thinking of the past. He had
made many plans for his granddaughter. Now she was dead, and he
dismissed her from his mind.

This explanation might be the truth, but nevertheless the steady
humming wore on McTee's nerves until finally he knocked on the door of
the inner cabin. It was dusk by this time, and when Henshaw opened the
door, he was carrying a lantern.

"You!" he muttered. "Well, captain?"

"You seem busy," said McTee uneasily, shifting under the steady light
from the lantern. "I thought I might be able to help you."

"At the work I'm doing no man can help," answered Henshaw.

"What work?"

"I'm calculating profit and loss."

"On your cargo?"

"Cargo? Yes, yes! Profit and loss on this cargo."

And he broke into a harsh laugh. Obviously Henshaw was lying, yet the
Scotchman went on with the conversation, eager to draw out some hidden
meaning.

"It's an odd idea of yours, this, to bring a shipment of wheat from the
south seas to Central America."

"Aye, the first time it's ever been done. This wheat came all the way
from Australia and the United States, and now it's going back again.
I'll tell you why. Wheat is scarce for export even in the States just
now, so I'm taking a gambling chance on getting this to port before the
first quantities come from the north. If I get in in time, I'll clean
up--big."

"I understand," said McTee.

The captain raised his lantern again and shone it in the eyes of McTee.

"Do you understand?" he queried. "Do you?"

And he broke again into the harsh laughter. McTee started back with a
scowl.

"What's the mystery, captain? What's the secret you're laughing about?"

Again Henshaw chuckled.

"You're a curious man, McTee. Well, well! What am I laughing about?
Money always makes me want to laugh, and now I'm laughing about money.
Do you understand that? No, you don't. Perhaps you will before long.
Patience, my friend!"

For some reason the blood of McTee grew cold and colder as he listened.
His original suspicion of insanity grew weaker. He was being mocked,
and the mad do not mock.

"So tonight is the last night of Harrigan, eh?" said Henshaw suddenly.

"In the name of God," said McTee, deeply shaken, "why do you speak of
that? Yes, tonight he dies!"

"Alone!" said Henshaw in a changed voice. "He dies alone! It must be a
grim thing to die alone at sea--to slip into the black water--to drink
the salt--a little struggle--and then the light goes out. So!"

He shivered and folded his arms. He seemed to be embracing himself to
find warmth.

"But to die in the middle of the ocean with many men around you," he
went on, speaking half to himself, "that would not be so bad. What do
you say, McTee?"

But McTee was not in a mood for speaking. He only stared, fascinated
and dumb. Henshaw continued: "In the middle of night, with the engines
thrumming, and the lights burning in every port, suppose a ship should
put her nose under the surface and dive for the bottom! The men are
singing in the forecastle, and suddenly their song goes out. The
captain is in the wheelhouse. He is dreaming of his home town, maybe,
when he sees the black waters rising over the prow. He thinks it is a
dream and rubs his eyes. Before he can look again, the waves are upon
him. There is no alarm; the wireless, perhaps, is broken; the boats,
perhaps, are useless; and so the brave ship dives down to Davy Jones's
locker with all on board, and the next minute the waves wash over the
spot and rub out all memory of those who died there. Well, well, McTee,
there's a way of dying that would please White Henshaw more than a
death in a bed at a home port, with the landsharks sitting round your
bed grinning and nodding out your minutes of life. Ha?"

But Black McTee, like a frightened child caught in a dark room, turned
and fled in shameless fear into the deep night. Not till he was far aft
did he stop in a quiet place to think of Harrigan dying alone, choking
in the black water.

But Harrigan was far from fear. He lay on the deck above the
forecastle, cradled by the swing of the bows. He shook away the lurking
horror of the mutiny and gave himself up to peace.

In the midst of his sleep he dreamed of lying in a pitch-dark room and
staring up at a brilliant point of light, like a dark lantern partially
unshuttered. And suddenly Harrigan woke, and looking up, he caught a
flashing point of light directly above his eyes. In another moment he
was aware of the dark figure of a man crouched beside him, and then he
knew that the light which glittered over his head was the shimmer of
the stars against a steel blade.

The knife, as he stared, jerked up and then down with a sweep; Harrigan
shot up his hand to meet the blow, and his grip fastened on a wrist.
Wrenching on that wrist, he jerked himself to his knees, and the knife
clattered on the deck, but at the same instant the other man--a dim
figure which he could barely make out in the thick night--rushed on
him, a shoulder struck against his chest, and he was thrown sprawling
on the deck, sliding with the toss of the deck underneath the rail. He
would have fallen overboard had he not kept his grip on that wrist, and
as he reached the perilous edge, the other man jerked back to free his
arm.

He succeeded, but the effort checked the slide of Harrigan's great
body, and the next instant the Irishman was on his feet. He drove at
the elusive figure with his balled fist, but the other ducked beneath
the blow and fled down the ladder. Harrigan stopped only long enough to
sweep up the fallen knife before he followed, but when he reached the
edge of the deck, the waist of the ship extending back to the main
cabin was empty. The man, whoever he was, must have fled into the
forecastle.

Harrigan knew that if one of the sailors had dared to attack him, he
must be suspected, and if he was suspected by one, that one would
poison the minds of a dozen others in a short time. It was even
possible that someone in authority had given orders for his death. With
this in mind he climbed down the ladder and opened the door of the
forecastle. He found the sailors sitting in a loose circle on the floor
rolling battered dice out of a time-blackened leather box.

Harrigan sat down on the edge of his bunk, produced the captured knife,
and commenced to sharpen it slowly, without ostentation, on the sole of
his shoe. It was already of a razor keenness. It was a carving knife
evidently stolen from the galley of the ship; it had been ground so
often that the steel which remained was thin and narrow. A sharp blow
with that knife would drive it to the handle through human flesh. As he
passed it slowly back and forth across his shoe, Harrigan watched the
faces of the others with a side glance.

One or two looked up frankly and nodded approval when they saw his
occupation. The others, however, kept at their game, and of these the
only one to pay no attention to his presence was Jerry Hovey. It
convinced Harrigan at once that the bos'n had given orders for his
death. It might have been the bos'n himself who had made the attempt
just a moment before and had retreated to the forecastle.

On the other hand, the bos'n seemed to be breathing regularly, and the
man with whom he had fought would not be able to keep his chest from
heaving a little after that violent effort. It was more probable that
one of the men who lay in their bunks had made the attempt, but it
would be useless to examine them. Then his glance fell on Kamasura, the
cabin boy.

The little, flat-faced Jap was a favorite with Jerry Hovey, and he was
permitted to come forward whenever he pleased to the forecastle. He now
sat on a box against a wall, watching the dice game with his slant
eyes. Once or twice he met the searching scrutiny of Harrigan with a
calm glance, and when it was repeated for the third time, nodded and
grinned in the most friendly manner.

Harrigan was about to dismiss his suspicion from his mind, when he
noticed that the Jap's arms were folded and the hands thrust up the
opposite sleeves, concealing both wrists. Harrigan considered a moment,
and then stooped over and commenced to unlace his boots. When the first
one was unloosened, he kicked it off, but with such careless vigor that
it skidded far across the floor and smashed against the box on which
Kamasura sat. The little Oriental leaped to his feet and caught up the
shoe. As he did so, Harrigan's watchful eye saw a bright-red spot on
the Jap's wrist. That was where the grip of his fingers had lain when
they struggled on the deck above.

"'Scuse me, Kamasura," he called cheerily, and raised his hand to
betoken that the boot had come from him.

There was a flash of teeth and a glint of almond eyes as the Jap
grinned in answer and the boot was tossed back. Harrigan caught it, but
his eye was not on the shoe. He was staring covertly at Jerry Hovey,
and now he saw the gray-blue eyes of the bos'n flash up and glance with
a singular meaning at Kamasura. If he had heard every detail of the
plot, Harrigan could not have understood more fully. Thereafter, every
moment he spent on the _Heron_ would be full of danger, but apparently
Hovey had confided his hatred of the Irishman to Kamasura alone. If
Hovey had spoken to the rest of the forecastle, those blunt sailors
would have showed their feelings by some scowling side glance at
Harrigan. It flashed across his mind that the reason Hovey wished him
out of the way was because he feared him.




CHAPTER 29


He slipped onto his bunk and lay with his hands folded under his head,
thinking; for between the danger from the leader of the mutiny and the
danger from McTee and Henshaw, he was utterly confused. He made out the
voices of the two gamblers, Hall and Cochrane.

"Three deuces to beat," said Hall.

"I'd beat three fives to get Van Roos," answered Cochrane.

Jan Van Roos was the second mate, a genial Dutchman with rosy cheeks
and a hearty laugh for all occasions; but he was an excellent sailor
and a strict disciplinarian. Therefore he had won the hatred of the
crew. The entire group of mutineers had shaken dice to have the
disposing of the mate in case he was captured alive. Now the dice
rattled and clicked on the deck as Cochrane made his cast.

"Forty-three!" called Cochrane. "Now watch the fours."

He swept up the other three dice and made his second cast. Another four
rolled upon the deck. He had won Van Roos, to dispose of him as he saw
fit. Harrigan heard the rumble of Sam Hall's cursing.

"Easy, lad," said Cochrane soothingly. "We'll work on Van Roos
together, and if we don't sweat every ounce of blubber out of his fat
carcass, my name is not Garry."

There was a sharp knock at the door of the forecastle, and a moment
later Shida, the other Japanese cabin boy, entered and came directly to
the bunk of Harrigan.

He whispered in the ear of the Irishman: "Meester Harrigan, get up.
Cap'n McTee, he want."

"Where is he?" growled Harrigan.

"I show."

Harrigan slipped on his shoes and followed Shida aft, wondering. The
little, quick-footed Jap brought him back of the wheelhouse and then
disappeared. Leaning against the rail was McTee, unaware of their
coming and peering out at the wake of the ship.

As the Heron's stern dipped to a trough of a wave that towered blackly
into the night, the outlines of McTee's form were blurred, but the next
moment he was tossed up against the very heart of the starry sky. With
that peculiar mixture of fear and thrilling exultation which he always
felt when he came into the presence of the captain, Harrigan drew
close. Perhaps the sailor had chosen this heaving afterdeck as the
place for their final death struggle, ending when one of them was
hurled into the black ocean.

It was this thought which gave the ring to his voice when he called,
"I've come, McTee!"

The captain whirled, bracing himself against the rail with both hands,
as though prepared to meet an attempt to thrust him overboard. Then--
and Harrigan thought his ears deceived him as he listened--McTee said
with a great, outgoing breath: "Thank God!"

He explained: "Come closer; talk soft! Harrigan, guard yourself
tonight. There'll be an attempt at your life!"

"Another?" queried Harrigan.

"They've tackled you already?"

Harrigan took out the knife and waved it in the faint starlight.

"They did," he said jauntily, "and they left this behind them as a
token."

"Listen," said McTee; "it's not for nothing that men call me Black, but
all evening I've been remembering the time when we took hands in the
trough of the sea. I've thought of that, Harrigan, and it made me weak
inside--"

He paused, but Harrigan would not speak.

"Because I planned your death tonight, Dan."

"Angus, the steel ain't been sharpened that can kill me."

"Don't be too confident. Get every word I say. I'm washing my soul out
for you. It's Hovey and the little Jap, Kamasura, that you'll have to
guard against."

"I know 'em both."

"D'you mean to say--"

"No, I didn't make 'em confess, but I saw 'em lookin' at each other.
What made you hitch up with swine like them? Was it because of--her?"

"Yes."

"Then I forgive you for it. Angus, I got a sort of a desire to shake
hands with you. There's nothin' but swine an' snakes aboard the Heron.
I'd like to feel the grip of a man's hand."

They fumbled in the dark and then their hands met. They retained that
grasp till the ship sank twice to the deep shadow of the trough and
swung up again to the crest.

"There's no peace between us till she's out of the way," muttered
Harrigan at last. "What d'you say, Angus?"

"Harrigan, there are times when you're a poet. Strip!"

The Irishman was tearing off his shirt, when three crashing, rattling
explosions sent a shudder through the Heron, and his arms dropped
nervelessly.

"Where was it?" gasped Harrigan.

"Forward," answered McTee.

"Kate!" they cried in the same breath, and rushed for the main cabin.




CHAPTER 30


The decks were already thick with half-dressed sailors. Here and there
lanterns gleamed, and what they showed was the three lifeboats of the
Heron--two on one side of the cabin and one on the other--blown into
matchwood. Only shapeless fragments and bundles of kindling wood
dangled from the davits. Captain Henshaw, cool and calm in his white
clothes, stood with folded arms examining the wreckage on one side.

The sailors from the forecastle went here and there, muttering,
growling surlily; for a shrewd blow had been struck at their plan of
mutiny, the last item of which was to abandon the Heron off a deserted
coast and then row ashore in the lifeboats. Over their clamor and
cursing broke two voices, one accusing in a deep bass and the other
protesting innocence in a harsh treble. It was the third mate, Eric
Borgson, who approached carrying little Kamasura under his arm like a
bundle.

"Here's the little devil who done the work," he snarled, and flung
Kamasura at the feet of White Henshaw.

The Japanese are a brave people, but in that dreadful presence Kamasura
made no effort to regain his feet, but remained on his knees, groveling
and clinging to the hands of the captain, while he shrieked out an
explanation. To remove his hands from those clinging fingers, Henshaw
simply raised his foot, laid it against the breast of the Jap, and
thrust out. The kick sent Kamasura rolling head over heels till he
crashed against the rail. He lay partially stunned by the impact, and
Eric Borgson, bellowing his enjoyment of this pleasant jest, collared
poor Kamasura and dragged him back before White Henshaw. The Jap was
now inarticulate with terror and pain.

"I was comin' down out of the wheelhouse," said the mate, "to get a
bite of lunch--this bein' a night watch--when I seen this little yellow
rat sneakin' down the deck like a thief. I didn't think nothin' much
about it, supposin' he'd just lifted some chow, maybe, and then I heard
them explosions. They knocked me off my pins, but I scrambled over an'
collared this fellow. He showed he was guilty right off the bat by
yellin' for mercy."

"Captain, captain!" screamed Kamasura. "Lies, lies-all lies. I go down
the deck--"

The heavy hand of Eric Borgson smashed against Kamasura's mouth. The
Jap sagged back, was jerked upright, and the mate's clubbed fist jarred
home again.

"Lies, are they?" thundered Borgson. "I'll teach you to say that word
to Eric Borgson, ha!"

And he struck the half-conscious Jap again full in the face. There was
a slight commotion in the back of the gathering crowd of sailors.
Harrigan was urging forward, but he was caught by the iron hands of
McTee and held back.

"For the love of Mike," moaned the Irishman softly, "let me at that
swine of a mate!"

"Shut up!" cautioned McTee savagely, but in a whisper. "That's the Jap
who tried to knife you!"

"I will--I'll shut up," sighed Harrigan, panting, "but ah-h, to get in
punchin' distance of Borgson for one second!"

"What shall we do with him?" Borgson was asking.

"Captain!" begged the husky voice of Kamasura, fighting his way back to
semi-consciousness.

"If he tries to speak again, smash his mouth in," said Henshaw without
raising his voice. "Tonight put him in irons. I'll tend to him
tomorrow. Go get the irons. Hovey, take Kamasura below."

"Aye, aye, sir," said Hovey, and caught the Jap by the arms behind.

That touch quieted Kamasura, and as he was led off, he began to whisper
quickly.

The moment they were away from the crowd, Hovey said: "Say it slow--no,
you don't have to beg me to help you. I'll do what I can. You know
that. Now tell me what you saw."

"Cap'n McTee--behind the wireless house--holding the hand of Harrigan.
They were talkin' soft--like friends!"

"By God," muttered Hovey fiercely, "an' yet McTee told me he wanted
Harrigan put out of the way. He's double-crossin' us. They're teamin'
it together. What did they say?"

The Jap spat blood copiously before he could answer: "I could not
hear."

"You ain't worth your salt," responded Hovey.

"I cannot help--I am crush--I am defeat. Do not let them bring me
before Henshaw. To look at him--it puts the cold in my heart. I cannot
speak. I shall die--I--"

"Keep your head up," said Hovey. "There's nothing I can say that'll
help you--just now. Later on you'll be able to deal with Henshaw and
Borgson just the way they dealt with you. Does that help any?"

"Ah-h," whispered the Jap and drew in his breath sharply with delight.

"I might start the boys--I might turn them loose on the ship," went on
Hovey, "but the time ain't come yet for that. We're too far from the
coast. Whatever happens, Kamasura, can you promise me to keep your face
shut about the mutiny?"

"Yes-s."

"Even if they was to tie you up an' feed you the lash? Henshaw's equal
to that."

Kamasura stammered, hesitated.

"Don't make no mistake," said Hovey fiercely, "because we'll be
standin' close, some of us, an' the first tune you open your damned
mouth, we'll bash your head in. Get me?"

The entrance of Eric Borgson made it impossible for the Jap to answer
with words, but his eyes were eloquent with promise. Hovey started back
for the forecastle; he had much to say to the sailors, and thereafter
life on the Heron would be equally dangerous for both Harrigan and
McTee.

The two, in the meantime, were making their way aft shoulder to
shoulder. When they reached the stretch of deck behind the wireless
house, McTee said: "Harrigan, what's it to be? Are you for fighting it
out?"

"I'm with you in anything you say," retorted the dauntless Irishman,
and then with a changed voice, "but I'm feelin' sort of sick inside,
Angus. Did ye see that murtherin' dog smash the mouth of that Jap when
he hadn't the strength to lift his head? Ah-h!"

"I'm sick, too," said McTee, "but not because of the Jap. It's
something worse that bothers me."

"What?"

"It's the thought of White Henshaw, Dan. The brain of that old devil is
going back on him. I think he loves death more than life. His memories
of what he's done put him in hell every minute he lives."

"Go easy, McTee," said Harrigan. "D'you mean to say that Henshaw blew
up those boats--an' his ship still in the middle of the Pacific?"

"I say nothing. All I know is that he talked damned queerly of how
wonderful it would be if a ship in the middle of the sea put her nose
under the waves and started for Davy Jones's locker. Yes, if she went
down with all hands--dived for the bottom, in fact."

"What can we do?"

"I don't know, but I'm beginning to think that this ship--and our
lives--would be safer in the hands of Hovey and his gang of cutthroats
than they will be under White Henshaw. Queer things are going to happen
on the _Heron_, Harrigan, mark my word."

"You think Henshaw blew up the boats so not one of the crew could
escape?"

"It sounds too crazy to repeat."

"McTee!"

"Yes, I'm thinking of her, too."

"Between the mutiny and the crazy captain, Angus, it'll take both of us
to pull her through."

"It will."

"Then gimme your hand once more, cap'n. We're in the trough of the sea
once more, an' God knows when we'll reach dry land, but while we're on
the _Heron_, we're brothers once more. For her sake I'll forget I hate
you till we've got the honest ground under our feet once more."

"When the time comes," said McTee, "it'll be a wonderful fight."

"It will," agreed Harrigan fervently. "But first, McTee, we must let
her know that we're standin' shoulder to shoulder to fight for her.
Otherwise she won't give us her trust."

"You're right again. We'll go to her cabin now and tell her. But don't
give her a hint of all that we fear. She already knows about the
mutiny--and she knows about your part in it."

"You saw to that, McTee?" said Harrigan softly, as he pulled on his
shirt.

"I did."

"Ah-h, Angus, that fight'll be even better than I was afther thinkin'."

And they went forward, walking again shoulder to shoulder. It was
Harrigan who stood in front at her door and knocked. She opened it
wide, but at sight of him started to slam it again. He blocked it with
his foot.

"I've not come for my own sake," he said in a hard voice, "but the two
of us have come together."

He jerked his thumb over his shoulder, and she made out the towering
form of McTee. At that she opened the door, glancing curiously from one
to the other. The eyes of Harrigan went from her face to McTee, and his
eyes flamed.

"Speak up, McTee," he said savagely. "Tell her you lied about me."

The Scotchman glowered upon him.

"I'll tell her what I've just found out," he answered coldly, and
turned to Kate. "We were mistaken in what we thought when we overheard
Hovey talking with Harrigan. Dan was simply playing a part with them--
he was trying to learn their plans so as to use them against the
mutineers when the time came."

There was a joyousness in her voice that cut McTee like a knife as she
cried: "I knew! I knew! My instinct fought for you, Dan. I couldn't
believe what I heard!"

"What you both heard?" he said bitterly. "I remember now. It was when I
talked with Hovey in front of this cabin?"

"Ask no more questions," said McTee. "I'm seeing red now."

"Black! You see nothin' but black, ye swine! The soot in your soul is a
stain in your eyes, McTee."

They turned toward the door, but she sprang before it and set her
shoulders against the boards.

"Sit down--you too, Dan."

They obeyed slowly, McTee taking the edge of the bunk and Harrigan
lowering his bulk to the little campstool, which groaned beneath his
weight. She sat on a chair between them, while she looked from face to
face.

"When you came in you were friends," she said, "and the only thing that
could bring you to friendship was danger. There is danger. What?"

They exchanged glances of wonder at this shrewd interpretation.

"There is danger," said McTee at length, "and it's a danger which is
something more than the mutiny, perhaps."

"I will tell it," said Harrigan.

He drew his chair closer to Kate and leaned over so that his face was
near hers. She knew at once that he had forgotten all about the
presence of McTee.

"Kate, I will not lie to ye, colleen"--here McTee set his teeth, but
Harrigan went on--"I hate McTee, and it's for your sake that I hate
him. And it's for your sake that I'm goin' to forget it for a while.
There's throuble abroad--there's a cloud over this ship an' a curse on
it--"

"What he means to say," broke in McTee, and then he became aware that
she had not heard him speak, and he saw her smiling as she drank in the
musical brogue of the Irishman.

"A curse on it, acushla, an' a promise av death that only two shtrong
men can save you from--an' McTee is shtrong--so I've put away desire av
killin' him till we get you safe an' sound to the shore, colleen,
acushla; but ye must trust in us, an' follow us as ye love your life
an' as I love ye!"

She straightened in her chair and turned her eyes toward McTee.

"And you cannot tell me what the danger is?"

"We cannot," he answered, "but you must pay no attention to anything
that happens or to anything that is said to you by others. There are
only two men on the _Heron_ whom you can trust--and here we are. But
there may be wild happenings on the _Heron_. Keep your courage and
trust in Angus McTee and--"

"And Harrigan," broke in the Irishman quickly, with a glare at the
captain.

She reached an impulsive hand to both of them, and they met the clasp,
keeping, as it were, one eye upon her and one eye of hate upon each
other.

She said, and her voice was low and musical with exultation: "I've no
care what happens. I know we shall pull through safely. The three of
us--Dan, Angus--we lived through the storm when the _Mary Rogers_ sank,
we lived on the island and survived, we reached the _Heron_ in safety,
and as long as we stay together, we'd be safe if the whole world were
against us. Don't you feel it?"

She rose, and they stood up, towering above her, while she went on in a
voice trembling somewhat: "But we must not be seen together if all
these dangers threaten us; they must not know that the three of us are
like one great heart."

They stepped back, and McTee pulled open the door, but still she
retained their hands, and now she raised them both to her lips with a
gesture so swift that they could not resist it.

"Both of you," she said; "God bless you both!"




CHAPTER 31


She released their hands; the door closed upon them; they stood facing
each other on the deck in the dark.

"McTee," said Harrigan with deep emotion, "we're swine. We were about
to fight before--her."

"Harrigan," said McTee, "we _are_ swine. But when the time comes, we'll
make up for it to her. If you hear a word in the forecastle, let me
know about it; if I hear a word in the captain's cabin, I'll send for
you. I may be wrong. Henshaw may be in his right senses. We'll see. In
the meantime there are just the two of us, Harrigan, and against us
there's a mutinous crew on one side and a mad captain, I think, on the
other."

"There's no use in thinkin'," said Harrigan; "when the time comes,
we'll fight. So long, Angus. When the trouble starts, our assemblin'
point is Kate."

And he went forward to the forecastle. In the morning he discovered
what he wanted to know. The men were aloof from him. He was conscious
of eyes upon him whenever his back was turned, but while he faced them,
no one would meet his glance.

In some way Hovey had learned that Harrigan was no longer to be trusted
as a member of the mutineers, and he must have spread his tidings among
the rest of the sailors. What he sensed in those covert glances,
however, was not an immediate danger, but rather a waiting--an
expectancy, and he deduced rightly that they would not attempt to lay a
hand upon him until the mutiny was started. Then he would be reserved
for some lingering death as a traitor doubly dyed.

While they were eating breakfast, Hovey came in late with the word that
during the night someone had tampered with the dynamo, and the result
was that the ship must complete her voyage without electric lights
and--far more important--without the use of the wireless. Sam Hall
started to blurt a comment on this, but a glance from Hovey silenced
him. It was plain that the bos'n would risk no conversation from his
blunt sailors while Harrigan was in earshot. The Irishman hurried
through his breakfast and took his bucket and scrubbing brush toward
the bridge, for he had many questions to ask McTee. He had scarcely
left the forecastle when Hovey said to Garry Cochrane: "Watch the door.
I've got something important to say."

Cochrane took up the designated position, and Hovey went on: "Lads,
I've bad news, bad and good news together. The boats are gone--though
who the devil destroyed them we don't know--and now the wireless is
destroyed. The boats are a big loss, for now we'll have to rig up some
sort of a raft to make shore when we beach the _Heron_. The busting of
the wireless almost balances that loss. Now we're sure they can't slip
out any quick wireless call that would bring a dozen ships after us.
Bad news and good news together; and here's some more of the same kind.

"Henshaw has made up his mind to give Kamasura the whip. You know what
that means? Well, I'll tell you. It means that after the first dozen
strokes--as Borgson will lay them on--Kamasura will break down and tell
everything we don't want him to say. Understand? With the cabin warned
of what we're going to do, what chance would we have to take them? So
we'll hang around close, lads, and the minute Kamasura opens his face
to say the wrong thing, we'll rush 'em--are you with me? And go for two
men first--Black McTee and Harrigan. With them out of the way we'll
simply chew up the rest. Try to take the others alive, but don't waste
any time with McTee and the Irishman. You can lay to it before you
start that they'll never be taken till they're dead."

For some minutes he talked on, appointing to each man or group of men
the work he would be expected to perform when Hovey gave the signal to
attack, which would be one long blast on his whistle.

While they planned, Harrigan had reached the bridge and found McTee
impatiently awaiting him.

"You're late," frowned the Scotchman. "What's happened in the
forecastle?"

"Black looks on all sides, and no talk," said Harrigan.

"A falling barometer," nodded McTee, "and things are just as bad in the
cabin. You've heard about the wireless breaking?"

"I have. What does it mean?"

"It may have been done by the mutineers. I doubt it. But that isn't all
that's happened. This is a pretty cool day for the tropics."

Harrigan stared at him, baffled by the sudden change of the
conversation.

"It is cool," he assented.

"But in the fireroom it's hotter than it's been at any time since the
_Heron_ started on this trip. The second assistant came up to complain
to Henshaw, and I heard them.

"'There's something wrong with the air shafts,' he said to White
Henshaw.

"'Look here,' said Henshaw, 'I've had enough grumbling from the
fireroom. Put a fan in the air shaft, and don't come up here again with
any nonsense. D'you expect to find cool breezes in the South Seas? No,
they're hot as fire--hot as fire--hot as fire!'

"He repeated those words three times over in a way that made my flesh
creep, and then he laughed. Even the second saw that something was
wrong. He took a long look at Henshaw, and then he went out with his
head down."

"What did it all mean?" asked Harrigan.

"I don't know. I don't dare think what it means. But if my guess is
right, then the _Heron_ is a lot nearer hell than even you and I
expected. Look, there goes Fritz Klopp, the first assistant engineer.
I'll wager he's got another complaint about the heat in the fireroom."

They watched Klopp go into the captain's cabin, waited a moment, and
then the door flew open and Klopp sprang out and fled aft like a man
pursued. Henshaw came to the open door and peered after the engineer
and laughed silently.

McTee muttered: "That's the way the devil laughs when he watches the
damned souls pass by."

Here Henshaw glanced up and saw them watching him from the bridge. His
face altered suddenly to a malevolence so terrible that both the men
stepped back. Harrigan was trembling like a hysterical girl. He looked
in the face of McTee and saw that the Scotchman had blanched. For a
long moment they exchanged glances, and then McTee went down from the
bridge and entered the cabin.

Henshaw was not there. He had evidently gone into the inner room, and
McTee sat down to wait. The time had come for him to ask questions, and
he was nerving himself for the ordeal. His plans were disturbed by a
muffled sound from the inner cabin, a sound so unusual that McTee
stiffened in his chair with horror and then rose slowly.

Tiptoe he stole across the floor and laid a hand lightly on the knob of
the door of the captain's private room. It turned easily without any
creak, and the door opened a few inches. There sat Henshaw with his
back to McTee, leaning over a table. Gold pieces were spilled loosely
across the surface of the wood--possibly the contents of three or four
of those small canvas bags--and Henshaw leaned forward with his
forehead resting upon the glittering yellow coins and one hand
clutching a quantity of them. His other hand held a photograph of the
dead Beatrice. The sound continued. It was the low sobbing of the
captain, a hoarse and horrible murmur.

McTee closed the door and went back onto the deck, for he suddenly
understood the futility of questions. Harrigan, in the meantime, had
waited for the return of McTee, and when the latter did not come, the
Irishman lingered on the bridge for an hour or more, pottering about
with his brush in a pretense of finishing up a perfect job. His
attention was drawn then by a gathering crowd and bustle in the waist
of the ship between the wheelhouse and the forecastle. The entire crew
of the _Heron_ seemed to be mustering, with the exception of those
needed to keep the engines running. They stood in a circle, leaving the
cover of the hatch clear.

He hurried down to witness the ceremony, and as he reached the waist,
he saw Henshaw take up his position with folded arms in the very center
of the hatch. A moment later Kamasura was led up by Eric Borgson and
Jan Van Roos.

The two mates, under the direction of Henshaw, lashed the Japanese face
down upon the hatch, pulling his arms and legs taut with ropes that
fastened to the bolts on all sides of the hatch cover.

When he was securely tied, Kamasura was stripped to the waist, and then
Harrigan saw Borgson, grinning evilly, step up with a long whip in his
hand. It was a blacksnake, heavily loaded and stiff at the butt and
tapering gradually to a slender, supple, snakelike body, with a thin,
sinister lash. Borgson whirled the whip around his head to get its
balance. Henshaw stepped back, still with folded arms.

"This fellow Kamasura," he announced to the crew, "has blown up the
boats of the _Heron_. There's no doubt of it. Borgson caught him almost
in the act. I could do worse things than this to Kamasura, but I've
decided to flog him until he confesses."

There was not a word of answer from the crew; they waited, hushed,
ominous. A whisper sounded in the ear of Harrigan, who stood with
gritting teeth and clenched hands.

It was McTee who murmured: "Hold onto yourself, Harrigan. Our time
hasn't come."

"I'll hold onto myself all right," said Harrigan, "but look at the
crew."

In fact, there was something more deadly than any snarling of a crowd
in this unnatural silence of many men. Also they were not looking at
Kamasura; they were staring, every man, at the bos'n, who stood with
his whistle hanging from a cord around his neck.

"Begin!" said Henshaw.

The blacksnake whistled around the head of the third mate and there was
a long scream from Kamasura--but the blacksnake only cracked loudly in
the air. Borgson laughed with a hideous delight. Harrigan, sickly
white, bowed his head. Again the blacksnake whirled and again it
cracked, but this time on naked flesh, and the scream of Kamasura was
like the cut of a knife.

Again, again, and again the blacksnake fell, and now Kamasura twisted
his head toward the captain and cried in a voice made thin by pain and
rage at once: "I confess! Captain, let me speak!"

At a gesture from Henshaw, the third mate reluctantly stepped back,
drawing the lash of the blacksnake slowly through his hands with a
caressing touch. Van Roos, the color completely gone from his usually
blooming cheeks, cut the ropes, and Kamasura rose, facing the captain.
He extended a naked, trembling arm toward Hovey.

"Mutiny!" he yelled. "The whole crew--the whole forecastle--mutiny,
Cap'n Henshaw! I know--"

The piercing whistle of the bos'n cut into his speech, and the crew
rolled forward over the hatch with a single shout that might have come
from one throat except for its shrill volume.




CHAPTER 32


"It's come!" cried Harrigan to McTee. "Kate!"

But even as he whirled, two sailors leaped on him from behind and bore
him to the deck. At the same time a gun flashed in the hand of Henshaw,
and he fired twice into the onrushing host. Two men crumpled up on deck
and the others gave back a little--they were glad to turn to the easier
prey of Van Roos and Borgson, who were instantly overpowered, while
Henshaw, with brandished revolver, made his way toward the main cabin.

The second and smaller rush of the mutineers had been toward Harrigan
and McTee, where the two men stood together. Harrigan, taken from
behind, went down at once and then grappled with his assailants before
they could use their knives. McTee stood over the struggling three and
smote right and left among the mutineers. A knife caught his shirt at
the shoulder and ripped it to the waist; a club whizzed past his head,
but his great fists smashed home on face and head and sent men
staggering and sprawling back. The confusion gave him an instant of
freedom in a small circle, and he leaned and caught one of Harrigan's
assailants by the heels. It was a little man, a withered fellow
scarcely five feet tall and literally dried up by the tropic heat. He
was wrenched from his hold, heaved into the air, and then whirled about
the head of McTee like a mighty bludgeon. As the sailors rushed again,
that living club smashed against them and flung them back. Even to the
herculean strength of McTee it was a prodigious feat, but the danger
gave him for the moment the power of a madman. Twice he swung the
shrieking little sailor, and twice that body smashed back the attack,
while Harrigan leaped to his feet in time to knock down a man who
sprang at McTee from behind with a brandished knife.

All this had occurred in the space of half a dozen seconds; the first
rush of the mutineers was spent; before they could lunge forward again,
McTee flung the half-lifeless body of his human weapon into the midst
of the crowd and, turning with Harrigan at his shoulder, they sprang up
the ladder to the main cabin door.

Hovey was screaming commands over the din; the crowd rushed after the
fugitives.

Harrigan shouted at McTee: "Get Kate! Take her aft to the wireless
house! I'll hold 'em here a minute and then join you!"

McTee nodded and tore down the deck toward Kate's cabin, while Harrigan
pulled the knife of Kamasura from his trousers and thrust it in the
face of the first man up the ladder. The blade slashed him from nose to
cheekbone, and he toppled back with a yell, bearing with him in the
fall the two men immediately below. Harrigan glanced across to the
other ladder on the farther side of the deck, and saw Kate and McTee
running aft. He turned and raced after them.

The wireless house was their one hope. There the sea would be at their
backs, and the only approach for the mutineers in their rush would be
up the ladders reaching from the deck below; the main cabin, on the
other hand, had half a dozen places from which it could be assailed.
This had been instantly seen by the other officers, and when Harrigan
reached the ladder to the deck at the other end of the cabin, he saw
Salvain standing in front of the wireless house, Kate and McTee in the
act of climbing the steps from the waist, and White Henshaw, with his
hair blowing, following hard in their tracks.

Harrigan reached the waist at a leap, and in another moment joined the
survivors in the shelter of the wireless house--Kate, McTee, Henshaw,
Salvain, and Sloan, a party of six. They were safe for the moment, for
the mutineers would certainly never venture an attack against the
wheelhouse, where they could be beaten from the ladders by the
defendants, but they were safe without food, without water.

Then, as they stared hopelessly across the waist, they saw three men
led across the rear promenade of the main cabin. Their hands were tied
behind them, and they were kicked forward by the mutineers, first Jacob
Van Roos--they could note his pallor even at that distance--then Eric
Borgson, scowling and defiant, and dragged along by the men of the
forecastle; and last came Douglas Campbell, surrounded by the firemen.
Finally, Jerry Hovey shouted across the waist:

"Black McTee! Oh, Black McTee!"

The Scotchman raised his hand as a token that he heard.

"You're done for, McTee, you and all the rest. You're bound to starve,
and when you're weak, we'll come and carry you forward, and you'll die
by inches as the other three are going to die; but if you want to
live--you and the girl and all of you, give us White Henshaw to treat
as he ought to be treated. Give us him, an' the rest of you'll be
saved. If you won't trust us, we'll bring you food and water enough to
keep you alive till we reach shore. Give us Henshaw and--"

He broke off, for he heard the harsh, ringing laughter of White
Henshaw. The captain held up his revolver.

"No use, Hovey," he called. "I fired five shots, but I saved one for
myself. Ha, ha, ha!" And his mirthless cackle broke out once more.

"Look!" cried Kate, and pointed at the captain.

Down the left side of Henshaw, bright against the white of his coat,
was a rapidly growing stain of red. They could see the small slit in
the cloth where a knife thrust had entered his side, but the old
buccaneer would give no sign of his injury. He waved his gun toward
Kate as she advanced an impulsive step toward him.

"Keep back!" he commanded. "Woman and man, I trust none of you. Give me
distance or I'll use this bullet on the first of you and give what's
left of me to the sea."

"By the Lord, he's wounded!" cried Harrigan. "Steady, old heart of oak,
you've nothing to fear from us. Hovey! Oh-h, Hovey, we'll see you
damned before we give up the captain!"

The bos'n, choking with his fury, shook his clenched fist at them and
disappeared into the cabin.

"Now lie down," said McTee to the captain, "and we'll fix you up. Are
you badly hurt?"

"Enough to finish me," said Henshaw calmly, "but keep off! I'll have
none of you! None of your tricks!"

His old body was trembling with the pain of his wound, but the hand
which held the gun leveled on McTee was as steady as a rock. Kate
pushed McTee aside and turned a glance of scorn on the others.

"You'd let him die among you--for fear of an old man and his wretched
revolver?"

She faced Henshaw.

"Go into the wireless house, Captain Henshaw, and I will go in alone
with you. If you don't trust me, you can keep your revolver at my
breast while I dress your wound--but see!--you will bleed to death in a
short time!"

He laughed again, saying: "Girl, there's nothing between heaven and
hell that can make me die by anything but fire--fire at sea--blue
fire."

She whitened at sight of his frenzied, yellow face, and then she saw
Harrigan slipping around to take the captain from the rear. He saw the
shadow of the Irishman just too late, and whirled with a curse at the
same time that Harrigan's iron hand seized the gun. For an instant he
struggled, but those mighty arms gathered him as easily as a woman
lifts a stubborn child, and he was carried into the wireless house and
placed on Sloan's bunk. As soon as he discovered that he was helpless
in their hands, he ceased struggling and lay without a motion while
they tore away his coat and shirt and Kate started to dress the deep,
ugly wound.

She had scarcely finished when a shout, or rather a scream, from fifty
throats brought them running out of the wireless house. Again and again
that cry was repeated from the main cabin, and they could not tell
whether it was despair or agony that inspired it.

Neither of these emotions caused it. All that time Hovey had been
kneeling in front of the captain's safe working at the combination, for
he had seen Henshaw open it several times and thought that he could
imitate the captain's motions. But he failed. Around him packed the
sailors in both cabins, a serried mass of intent faces and burning
eyes. But at last Hovey stood up and announced his failure--he could
not work the combination. Then came that yell which those in the
wireless house heard, a cry of mingled rage and disappointment. Gold in
untold quantities was here just within their reach--and yet just beyond
it. A few inches of steel kept the gold safe.

Men beat it with their bare hands in a senseless fury, till Garry
Cochrane slipped through the dense mass of sailors.

"I know something about locks. What do I get, lads, if I open this
one?"

"Five shares!"

"Ten shares!"

"Ten shares!" nodded Cochrane. "Good! Now keep still. I need quiet."

They were mute; not a breath was drawn; they scarcely dared move their
eyes lest he should be disturbed. Cochrane touched the lock lightly and
then rubbed his fingertips vigorously back and forth on the carpet--
anything to stimulate those fine nerves which are as valuable to some
criminals as eyes are to normal people.

With ear pressed close to the combination, he turned it slowly, by
delicate degrees, waiting for the telltale click. They saw him set his
teeth and grow eager as a hound on a scent of blood; they saw the
fingers move rapidly and nervously, and then came a click which was
audible through the entire room, and the door of the safe swung open.
Still no one stirred, no one breathed. He took out a small canvas bag,
he untied the top, he spilled the contents out, and then they saw
bright gold, gold which inspires, and gold which destroys, gold the
tempter and the murderer.

A wild scramble followed. They swept the gold up in handfuls and tossed
it into the air, laughing like madmen as the light gleamed on the
yellow surfaces. And at length when they were wearied of touching it
and caressing it, Hovey apportioned the spoils: to Cochrane, by common
assent, the ten shares, a fortune; to Sam Hall, Kyle, and Flint, two
shares each, for they had been leaders in the fight; to himself ten
shares, also by universal voice, and to each of the others, forty in
all, his portion.

There was no fighting or complaint over the division of the spoils.
What difference did a few hundred pieces here or there matter? Gold in
floods, gold in oceans, was before them, and each man gathered his own
share close.

But where there is gold there is death. One of the firemen said in the
ear of Hovey: "The second assistant--Fritz Klopp--he is dying."

It was upon Klopp that they depended for the running of the Heron.
Hovey merely laughed: "Carry him in here. He'll come to life when he
sees this!"

They had left Klopp lying on the deck. He had been one of the first to
leap at White Henshaw, and a bullet from the captain's revolver had
torn its way through his lungs; his eyes were glazing fast when two of
the firemen carried him into the outer cabin of White Henshaw and
placed him in an armchair beside the desk.

"How are you, Klopp?" asked Hovey.

"I am dying," answered the engineer, and a faint pink froth bubbled to
his lips as he spoke.

Hovey merely laughed; he spilled Klopp's share of the gold across the
surface of the table, a gleaming pile.

"How are you, Klopp?" he repeated.

"I will live," croaked the dying man, and instantly his clutches were
among the hundreds of coins, and his red mouth grinned with a ghastly
joy. He had forgotten death.

"You will live!" rumbled Sam Hall. "A man would be a fool to die when
there's so much money in sight. Where's your hurt?"

"I have no hurt," whispered Klopp hoarsely, "but I'm on fire inside.
Water! Something to drink!"

"Something to drink, but not water," responded Hovey. "Hey, Kamasura!
Drink! Whisky!"

Instantly Kamasura, who had evidently anticipated the order, came
staggering into the room with a literal armful of bottles. Hovey
himself brought a glass and placed it in the hand of Klopp and filled
it to the brim.

"Drink!" shouted Hovey, and sprang upon a chair so that all might see
him. "Drink to Fritz Klopp! White Henshaw potted him, but he laughs at
death, and he'll bring the old _Heron_ to shore. Here's to Fritz
Klopp!"

Many a glass was raised high. They drank with a shout of applause to
Fritz Klopp, who sat without stirring his glass, one hand upon it, and
the other buried among the heaps of gold, his head resting against the
back of the chair, and his red mouth still ajar in that horrible grin.

"What ye laughin' at?" yelled Sam Hall in his ear. "Are ye drunk at the
sight of the money, man?"

There was no answer. Hall caught him by the shoulder to rouse him, but
Klopp's head merely sagged far to one side, though his glazed eyes
still seemed to be fixed upward upon the same spot on the ceiling at
which he had been staring before.

"What is it?" cried one or two. "What does he see?"

"Death, you fools!" answered Hovey. "And how the devil will we bring
the _Heron_ to land without an engineer?"




CHAPTER 33


"Make Campbell run the ship," said Cochrane.

"You can't _make_ a Scotchman do anything."

"Persuade him, then," went on Cochrane. "He'd sell his soul for a drink
of that whisky. But if you can't persuade him, I'd trust to those
fellows to make him do what you want."

And he pointed to the firemen.

"I'll let 'em play their little game till they're tired of it,"
answered Hovey, "an' then we'll bring up Campbell an' try what we can
do with him."

The "little game" had now become a wild debauch. Except for the few
unfortunates who had been detailed by Hovey to guard the prisoners and
see that the fugitives in the wireless house made no attempt to rush
the main cabin as a forlorn hope, every man of the crew was gathered in
the captain's cabins or on the deck nearby. The fireroom was deserted;
the engines stopped; the _Heron_ floated idly on the swell of the sea;
but heedless of this the mutineers celebrated their victory.

They divided their attention between drinking and gambling. They seemed
feverishly eager to throw away their piles of gold. Some of them
flipped coins at ten dollars a throw. Others tossed dice. One group of
four sat around a greasy pack of cards betting on which man would draw
the first jack.

Those who lost did not envy the winners. They looked about; gold was on
all sides, heaps of it; if their hands were empty, their eyes were
rich. Sam Hall lost his entire share within an hour, betting
recklessly. He approached a gigantic fireman who squatted by the wall
with a canvas bag clutched in one hand and a broken bottle in the
other. The whisky had run out on the floor, but the fellow was too far
gone to know the difference, and from time to time he raised the empty
bottle to his lips.

"Money gone," said Hall. "Gimme!" And he held out his hand.

The fireman, with a vast grin, delved his hand into the bag and brought
it forth loaded with gold, which Hall took without a word and returned
to his game of rolling dice, one throw at five hundred dollars a throw.
In ten minutes he went back to the fireman with a double handful of
corns.

"Principal an' interest," grunted the big sailor, and dumped his gold
into the canvas bag which, filled to overflowing, spilled a dozen coins
upon the floor.

The fireman, with a groan of dull content, slipped prone on the floor
and was instantly asleep, embracing the canvas bag in both arms. Every
man in the crew was in a somewhat similar condition, saving Hovey, with
his gray-blue, steady eyes, and Cochrane, with his glittering, shifty
black. These two watched the rest descend toward swinish
unconsciousness; they saw, and waited coolly, and now and then glanced
at each other with faint smiles of understanding.

Somewhere in the waist of the ship Jacob Flint was singing shrill songs
of infinite profanity, but otherwise there was no sound on the _Heron_
as the sun went down, and all night long the old freighter wallowed
sluggishly up and down on the waves, as if she waited for dawn before
resuming her journey toward the shore.

There was a wisdom, however, in Hovey's laxness of discipline during
the first day of his mastery. The next morning the men slept late,
sprawling about the deck, and Hovey and Cochrane first roused ominous
Jacob Flint and Sam Hall and Kyle. With this nucleus of five mighty
men, men to be feared on land or sea, Hovey started to rouse the rest
of the mutineers. They woke cursing and sad of stomach and head, and to
the first orders they responded with cursing; the reply was a
sledge-hammer blow from the fist of Hall or Kyle, and while the man lay
on the deck, it was explained curtly and forcibly to him that while the
_Heron_ was at sea, he would have to obey Bos'n Hovey; but as soon as
the ship reached land, each man could be his own master.

First of all the firemen were commanded to the hole to get up steam,
but when this was done, it was found that there was some minor trouble
with the machinery. An engineer was needed; Hovey, with Cochrane, Flint
and Hall beside him, sent for Campbell, and retired to the cabin to
await his coming.

There sat the body of Fritz Klopp as it had remained ever since the
beginning of the revels the day before, grinning up at the ceiling.
Hall and Flint raised the body, and the clutching fingers were found to
be frozen by death immovably around a whole handful of gold. As Hall
suggested, this would serve as lead to take him to the bottom of the
sea. The others applauded the thought, and with his hand still full of
gold, they carried Fritz Klopp to the rail and dumped him into the
water.

As they re-entered the cabin, Campbell was kicked in from the opposite
door. His hands were manacled behind him, and the force of the kick,
together with a sway of the ship, threw him off his balance. He crashed
on his face at the feet of Hovey. The bos'n grew positively pale with
pleasure. He selected a cigar from an open box on the table and lighted
it leisurely.

At last he ordered: "Pick him up."

The chief engineer was jerked to his feet and stood with a trickle of
blood running down from his split lip. His face was rather purple than
red, and the dark pouches underneath his eyes told the horror of the
night he had passed. Nevertheless, the eyes themselves were bright.

Far away, half heard, and drowned by any noise near at hand, was a
sound of singing. It was Black McTee in the wireless house, half
maddened by thirst and hunger and despair, and singing in defiance
songs of bonny Scotland.

"There's been trouble aboard, chief," he said, "but now trouble's over.
All over! We want you to take charge of the engines again and bring us
to shore."

Campbell waited, not as if he had not heard. In spite of himself, Hovey
stirred a trifle and grew uneasy. From a corner of the room he picked
up a canvas bag and dropped it with a melodious jingling on the table
in front of the engineer.

"This is your share," he said.

Campbell smiled faintly.

"And this," said Hovey, with a glance at his companions.

The smile had not altered on the lips of the Scotchman.

"With this money," said Hovey, forcing himself to remain calm, "you can
retire from active work. You can get yourself a little place on the
coast somewhere"--he had heard Campbell name some of his dreams--"and
have a little cellar full of the right stuff, and have your friends run
out to see you now an' then, an' talk over things that're goin' on at
sea--where you ain't."

Here he placed a third bag of money on the table.

"You could do all that and more, chief--a lot more--with this money."

Hovey cut the lace which tied the mouth of one of the bags; he poured
the gleaming contents across the table.

"Well?" he asked softly.

"Damn you!" whispered Campbell, and then, "You fool, am I not Scotch?"

"At least," went on the bos'n easily, "think it over, chief, and while
you're thinkin', what d'you say to a drop of the real stuff?"

Campbell had not tasted either food or liquid since early the day
before, and his eyes were moist as they stared at the two bottles.

"Set his hands free," said Hovey, "so that the chief can drink. We
ain't half-bad fellers, Campbell; but we've got good cause for raisin'
the hell you've seen on the _Heron._"

While he spoke, the arms of Campbell were set free, and glasses were
shoved toward him, one full of Scotch and the other of seltzer. The
mutineers were already raising their drinks for a toast when Campbell
took his with a violently trembling hand. But as he lifted the liquor,
he was fully conscious for the first time of a singing which had been
faint in the air for some time, the songs of Black McTee in the
wireless house, and now the big-throated Scotchman swung into a new
air, plaintive and rapid in cadence, a death song and a war song at
once, the speech of Bruce before Bannockburn, as Burns conceived it.
Loud and true rang the voice of Black McTee, breaker of men:

    "Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled,
    Scots wham Bruce hae aften led,
    Welcome to your gory bed,
    Or to victory!"

And the hand of Campbell checked on its way to his lips. "We're lookin'
in your eyes, chief," said Hovey. And the song broke in:

"Wha would be a traitor slave,
Let him turn and flee!"

Campbell was staring at the wall like one who sees a
vision but cannot make out its meaning.

The voice of Black McTee swelled high and strong:

    "Wha for Scotland's king and law
    Freedom's sword will strongly draw,
    Freemen stand and freemen fa',
    Let him on wi' me!"

And the glass dropped from the lips of the Scotchman. It crashed
against the hard floor. Broad Scotch was on his tongue.

"I canna drink wi' murderers!" he cried.

"Damn you!" said Hovey, and drove his fist into Campbell's face,
hurling him to the deck.

The manacles were clapped on his wrists again; he was dragged once more
to his feet.

"Take him out," said Hovey to the grinning sailors who had lingered in
the door. "Take him back to the waist of the ship before the wireless
house. Wait for me there. And see that Van Roos and Borgson are brought
there also."




CHAPTER 34


As Campbell was dragged away, the bos'n said to his companions: "Now,
lads, you see where Campbell stands!"

They growled for answer.

"But I'll get him!" went on Hovey. "I'm going to kill Van Roos and
Borgson by inches before his eyes. And when he sees 'em die--they'll
have to die, anyway, before we reach shore--Campbell will be water in
our hands. He'll see 'em die, an' them in the wireless house will see
'em die. Their throats are thick with thirst by now. We'll show 'em
water an' food, an' offer it to 'em if they'll give up Henshaw. If they
won't, we'll show 'em how we'll kill 'em when they're too weak to
resist. They'll see a sample in Van Roos and Borgson. Every yell they
let out'll be an argument for us. We'll have Henshaw before the day's
done."

Sam Hall pushed his thick fingers slowly through his hair, stupefied by
this careful cruelty, and even the one eye of Jacob Flint grew dim, but
Garry Cochrane slapped the bos'n on the shoulder heartily.

"Jerry," he said, "you got the makin's of a great man. Let's go start
the fun."

On the way aft they passed the firemen sprawling on the shady side of
the deck. They stumbled to their feet at sight of Hovey, and swore
volubly that the hole of the ship was too hot for a man to live in it
five minutes. Hovey passed them without a word. He had to tend to
Campbell now, and without an engineer it was useless to work men in the
fireroom.

First of all he had two buckets of water carried aft and placed just
below the edge of the raised deck which supported the wireless house.
There were dippers floating invitingly on the surface of the water in
each bucket. Then from the galley of the ship Kamasura and Shida, the
cabin boys, brought out steaming meats and cut loaves of bread and
displayed the feast near the buckets of water. Upon this outlay gazed
the famine-stricken fugitives, Sloan, McTee and Harrigan; Kate did not
see, for she was caring for the sick captain. Hovey advanced and made a
speech.

"We're actin' generous and open to you," he began. "We're offerin' you
food an' water--all you want--in exchange for White Henshaw. He sold
his soul to hell long ago, an' we've come to claim payment. It's
overdue, that's what it is!"

"Aye, aye!" came a chorus of yells from the sailors. "White Henshaw's
overdue."

"Look at this here water," went on Hovey, with a tempting wave of his
hand. "Why not take this up an' help yourselves--after you've given us
Henshaw?"

Sloan crowded in between Harrigan and McTee; his voice was a slavering
murmur: "For pity's sake, boys, what we going to do?"

Harrigan and the big Scot exchanged glances. Faintly and slowly they
smiled. There was a profound mutual understanding in that smile.

"I'm dying," went on Sloan eagerly and still in that slavering voice.
"I'm burnin' up inside. For God's sake let 'em take him and finish him
off!"

And always as he spoke his quick eyes went back and forth from face to
face. They had neither eye nor voice for him. They turned their
attention back to Hovey, who now spoke again hastily.

"But if you don't give us Henshaw, we'll take him, anyway. In one more
day--or maybe two at the most--we'll come an' get you--understand? An'
what we'll do to you when we get you will be this!"

He gestured over his shoulder. Eric Borgson was being led out on the
deck by some of the crew.

"Look him over, Cap'n McTee. He's a big man, an' we're goin' to kill
him by inches. So we're goin' to finish Van Roos--the same way. Speak
out, lads; d'you want to die like these two are goin' to die, or will
you turn over Henshaw--who needs killin'?"

McTee smiled benevolently down upon the upturned, furious faces of the
mutineers, and muttered: "Harrigan, I could drink blood."

"An' lick your lips afther it," groaned the Irishman softly. "An' so
could I, Angus! They're startin' their devil work. Let's go inside. I
can't be standing the sight of it, McTee."

"Go inside an' let 'em rush the wireless house?" said McTee
incredulously. "No, lad. We _got_ to stay an' watch. Besides, maybe
this is the way we'll all die--after we're too weak to fight 'em. And
I'm rather curious to learn just how I'll die; I've always been!"

They were binding Borgson face down on the hatch.

"Look," said Harrigan. "Maybe it ain't goin' to be so bad as we
thought. They're just goin' to lick Borgson the way he licked the Jap."

"They'll do more," replied McTee, shaking his head. "Henshaw and
Borgson and Van Roos have really put those wild men through hell, and
now they're going to get it back with interest."

In the meantime little Kamasura stepped out from the crowd. He was
naked to the waist, for the raw incisions which the lash had left would
not bear the weight of clothes. He carried the blacksnake in his hands,
drawing it caressingly through his hands as Borgson had done. Now the
tying of Borgson was completed, and the sailors spread back in a loose
circle to watch their entertainment.

The Japanese took his distance carefully, shifting repeatedly a matter
of inches to make sure that no stroke would be wasted. Then he whirled
the blacksnake over his head. They could see Borgson wince as the lash
sang above him, and the muscles of his bare back flexed and stood up in
knots that glistened under the sunlight. But the stroke did not fall.
Kamasura had learned the lesson of creating suspense from the very man
he was now about to torture. Harrigan bowed his head in his hands.

"I can't look, McTee," he muttered. "I'm sick inside--sick--sick!"

The last words came in a growl from the hollow of his throat. The
blacksnake whirled through the air again and fell with a sharp slap
like two broad hands clapped together, but Borgson did not cry out. His
body writhed mutely, and down his back appeared a red mark. The whip
whirled again and fell, this time bringing a stifled curse for a
response. Once more it whirled, and this time merely cracked in the
air. Again and again an idle snap in the air. Broken by that grim
suspense, Borgson yelled in terror.

Kamasura laughed and glanced at the circle of sailors like a ringmaster
in a circus in search of applause. The whip now whirled rapidly over
his head and fell again and again, and every stroke brought a fresh and
louder scream from the mate. Another sound, rhythmic and barbarous,
punctuated those shrieks of anguish. It was the singing of Kamasura,
who as he wielded the lash remembered a chant of his native land and
shouted it now in time with the blows of the blacksnake.

On the upper deck Sloan lay prone on his face, sobbing with terror;
Harrigan kept his face hid and clutched at his head with both hands;
McTee stared straight down upon the scene of the torture with burning
eyes. Inside the wheelhouse Kate crouched beside the bunk on which
Henshaw was stretched, staring straight above his head. The fever had
deprived him of the last of his senses.

"Your hands!" he muttered at length.

She placed them upon his forehead. She had done that repeatedly during
the past day, and each time the effect had been marvelously soothing to
the old man. Now at the touch he drew a deep breath of relief.

"Even in hell," he whispered at length--"even in hell you come to me,
Beatrice! I knew you would!"

He caught her hands at the wrists; his fingers, despite his fever, were
deadly cold, and a chill ate into her blood.

"I hear them yelling--the souls of the damned," he said quietly. "You
can't hear it?"

"No, no!" she said. "I cannot hear!"

"Of course not," he went on with the same lack of emotion; "for, you
see, you've come from heaven, and the coolness of heaven is in your
hands, Beatrice. Put them against my temples, so! For every bit of the
love I have given you you are permitted to repay me with coolness--
coolness and comfort in hell!"

Suddenly he broke into exultant laughter, a sound more terrible than
the wild wails from the deck.

"See!" he said, and his eyes twinkled as he stretched out a gaunt arm
toward a corner of the room. "There's Johnny Carson lying naked on a
bed of blue fire. Ha, ha, ha! Have you been waiting long for me to
come, lad?"

She shut out the hungry, hideous light of his eyes with the palms of
her hands. Now the screaming on the deck ceased abruptly.

"Beatrice!" he cried with a sudden terror.

"Yes," answered Kate.

"Ah," he said, and patted her hands endearingly. "When the silence
came, I feared maybe you were leaving me. You won't do that?"

"No. I'll stay."

"So! Then I'll sleep. But waken me when they begin yelling again. They
thought I'd come down to the same hell I sent them to, and that they'd
watch me burn. But I fooled 'em, Beatrice, by loving you. You're the
chip of wood that keeps me afloat--afloat--afloat--"

And he drifted into sleep, while she leaned against the bunk, almost
unconscious from fear and exhaustion.




CHAPTER 35


Kamasura, in nowise loath to bring his work to an end, stood back and
laid on the whip with redoubled vigor. The lash spatted sharply against
the raw and bleeding flesh. The screams sank into moans, and the moans
in turn declined to a mere horrible gasping of the breath. Even this
ceased at length, and the quivering of the body stopped. Kamasura
leaned over and slipped his hand under the body in the region of the
heart. When he straightened up again, he made a gesture of finality
with his crimsoned hands. The mate was dead.

They cut his body loose at once and pitched him over the rail, then
turned their attention to Van Roos. Sam Hall was the inspired man this
time, and according to his directions they lashed the body of the big
mate on the same blood-spotted hatch cover where Borgson had lain a
moment before, but this time the victim was placed upon his back. Hall
himself attended to the tying of Van Roos's head, and he performed his
work so ably that the mate could not change his position in the least
particle. He was literally swathed in ropes; so much so, in fact, that
it was difficult to see how he could be tormented. Sam Hall, however,
insisted that this was what he wanted, and the crew consented to let
him do his work.

"You've heard something, an' you've seen something," said Hovey at this
juncture to Campbell; "but what you've seen and heard isn't nothin' to
what'll happen to you unless you start handling the engines of the
_Heron_. Why, Campbell, I'm goin' to give you to the firemen!"

"Hovey," answered the engineer calmly, "the only place I'd run this
ship would be down to hell--your home port. That's final!"

The bos'n was white with rage.

"I'd like to tear your heart out an' feed it to the fish," he said,
stepping close to Campbell, and then, remembering himself, he moved
back and grinned: "But the men will find something better to do with
you."

He crossed the deck and held up a bucket of water toward Harrigan and
McTee. He raised a dipperful and allowed it to splash back in the
bucket.

"Well?" asked Hovey.

They merely stared at him as if they had not heard him speak.

"All right," said Hovey, quite unmoved, "there's plenty of time for you
to make up your minds. But if you wait too long--well, we'll come and
get him. And the girl, too!"

He laughed and turned away.

"I thought," muttered McTee, "that we could end it by simply dying--but
I forgot the girl."

"The girl," answered Harrigan, "and--and them! She's got to die before
we're too far gone. You'll do that to save her from--them?"

McTee moistened his parched lips before he could speak.

"One of us has to do it, but it can't be me, Harrigan."

"Nor me, Angus. We'll wait till tonight. Maybe a ship'll pass and see
us lyin' like a derelict and put a boat aboard, eh?"

"But if no ship comes, then we'll draw straws, eh?"

"Yes."

Two sharp, sudden cries now called their attention back to the waist of
the ship to the blood-stained hatch cover where Van Roos lay.

Sam Hall had approached the big mate with a knife in his hand. He
kneeled beside the prostrate body and fumbled at the face an instant.
No one had been able to make out the significance of his act. Then the
knife gleamed, and twice he plucked with one hand and cut with the
knife. The two sharp cries answered him. Then he rose; two little
trickles of blood ran down the face of the mate.

"Well?" asked Jacob Flint. "When does the game begin?"

"The game is just started," said Hall, "an' the sun will do the rest.
I've cut off his eyelids!"

They stared a moment in amazement, and then an understanding broke on
them. Every tribe of savages in the world has been accredited with this
ingenious torture which blinded their victim and usually drove him mad.
The sun was now climbing the sky rapidly, and already fell on the face
of the mate. The tropic sun which scorches and burns the toughest of
skins was now directed full on the pupils of his eyes.

The sailors sought comfortable positions and waited for a long
exhibition of pain, but they were mistaken. The torture acted far more
quickly than even the whip. There was no outcry. Not once during his
struggles did Van Roos make a sound from his throat, save for a quick,
heavy panting. Perhaps by contrast with the yells of Borgson, which
were still in the ears of the men, this silence was more horrible than
the most throat-filling shrieks. They could see Van Roos twisting his
head ceaselessly and vainly to escape that blinding light. His ruddy
face became swollen like the features of a drowned man. And that was
all that happened--only that, and the panting, the quick, choppy
panting like a running man. Finally one of the sailors rose with a
mallet in his hand.

"Where you goin'?" asked Hall ominously.

"Going to finish him."

Hall caught the fellow's arm.

"Listen!" he whispered, and such was the silence that the hoarse
whisper was audible all over the deck. "Don't you hear?"

And with one hand he kept beat for the quick breaths of the tortured
man. At that moment there was a long sigh, and the breathing stopped.
Hall strode angrily forward to his victim, but when he reached the
hatch, Van Roos was dead. A blood vessel must have burst in his brain,
and death was as instantaneous as though a bullet had struck him. So
they cut him free, and his body followed that of Borgson over the rail.
Then the eyes of the mutineers turned aft toward the wireless house,
and then back upon Campbell. Six victims remained. One of the firemen
slipped close to Hovey on naked feet. He did not speak, but his long,
thin arm pointed toward the engineer.

"Not yet," said Hovey, "not yet! Tomorrow if he doesn't give in, we'll
turn you loose on him."

The fireman grinned and went back on noiseless feet to his companions
to spread the good tidings. Hovey approached the wireless house.

"We've got one show left to offer, but we're savin' it till tomorrow,"
he said. "So brace up, hearties, and keep cheer. You'll see Campbell go
a way worse than either of these tomorrow."

"Wait," called Harrigan, suddenly roused. "D'you mean to say that you'd
try your hellwork on a kind man like Campbell?"

"A kind man like Campbell?" echoed Hovey, and then laughed. "A kind
man?"

And he retreated with no other answer, and left the fugitives aft to
the merciless, sweltering heat of the sun. By the time the sun went
down, they were so fevered by the need of water that they had not the
strength to bless the cool falling of the dark; they still carried the
fire of the sunlight in their blood.




CHAPTER 36


"This man Campbell," said Harrigan, "he's a true man, McTee, and he
stood up to White Henshaw for my sake--for the sake of me and his
Bobbie Burns. They plan to take him to hell tomorrow, Angus, and I've
an idea that there's one chance in the thousand that I could steal in
on the dogs tonight and bring him back with me."

"Can they do anything worse to him than they're doing to us?"

"Maybe not, but my heart would lie easier, McTee. I'll wait for the
fever o' the sun to go out of me head an' for the crew to get drunk an'
a little drunker."

So they waited while the noise of the nightly carousal waxed high and
higher, and then died away by slow degrees. At length Harrigan stood
up, gripped the hand of McTee in silent farewell, heard a whispered
"Good luck!" and slipped noiselessly down the ladder and started across
the deck in the shadow of the rail. From any portion of the main cabin
eyes might be watching him; there was only the one chance in ten that
the lookout whom Hovey had certainly stationed would not perceive him
as he crept along under the shadow. Accordingly he went blindly
forward.

If the lookout saw him, at least there was no outcry, no general alarm.
He stood flat against the wall of the main cabin at length and
rehearsed a plan, listening the while to the lapping of the waves
against the side of the ship. Then he stole step by step up the ladder
to the upper deck. His head was already above the ladder when he heard
the light padding of a bare foot and saw a figure around the corner of
the cabin.

Harrigan ducked out of sight and clung to the iron rounds ready to leap
up and strike if the sailor should descend the ladder, though in that
case the alarm would be given and his errand spoiled; but the sailor
was apparently the lookout set there by Hovey. He stayed at the head of
the ladder a moment, humming to himself, and then turned and walked on
his beat to the other side of the ship. Harrigan slipped onto the deck
and ran noiselessly to the side of the cabin. Here he flattened himself
against the wall until the sentinel had again made the turn of his
beat, and as the latter moved dimly out of sight through the darkness,
the Irishman stole down the deck toward the forward cabins.

The first two windows showed dark and empty; if there were anyone
inside, he must be asleep in the drunken torpor into which most of the
crew seemed to have fallen. The door of the third room, formerly
occupied by the second mate, stood ajar, and here by the dull light of
an oil lantern, he saw Campbell tied hand and foot to a chair. He was
placed close to a little table whereon sat a bottle of whisky, a siphon
of seltzer, a tall glass, meat, bread, water--everything, in fact, with
which the senses of the starving man could be tormented. And near him,
sitting with elbows spread out on the edge of the table, was one of the
firemen, grinning continually as if he had just heard some monstrous
joke. The expression of Campbell was just as fixed, for his small eyes
shifted eagerly, swiftly, from the food to the water, and back again.

The fireman--the same tall, gaunt fellow who had demanded that Hovey
turn over Campbell to him and his companions that day--now leaned
forward and raised a dipper of water from a bucket which sat on the
floor, and allowed it to trickle back, splashing with what seemed to
Harrigan the sweetest music in the world. Hovey must have taught him
that trick, and its effect upon Campbell was worse than the beating of
the whips. The fireman let his head roll loosely back as he laughed,
and while his head was still back and his eyes squinting shut in the
ecstasy of his delight, Harrigan leaped from the shadow of the door and
struck at the throat--at the great Adam's apple which shook with the
laughter. The blow must have nearly broken the man's neck. His head
jerked forward with a whistling gasp of breath, and as he reached for
the knife on the table, Harrigan struck again, this time just behind
the ear. The man slid from his chair to the floor and lay in a queer
heap--as if all the bones in his body were broken.

"Harrigan! Harrigan! Harrigan!" Campbell was whispering over and over,
but still his eyes held like those of a starved wolf on the food. The
moment his ropes were cut, he buried his teeth in the great chunk of
roasted meat.

Harrigan jerked him away and held him by main force.

"Be a man!" he whispered. "We've got to take this food and this water
back to the wireless house--if we can get there with it. Take hold of
yourself, Campbell!"

The engineer nodded. Voices came close down the deck; instantly
Harrigan jerked up the glass globe which protected the lantern's flame
and blew out the light. They crouched shoulder to shoulder.

"I thought he was in here," said a voice at the door.

"He was," answered Hovey's voice, "but I guess they took him below--
they said it was too cool for him up there. Ha, ha, ha!"

Their steps disappeared down the deck. After that Harrigan dared not
show a light in the cabin window. He and Campbell located the meat and
bread, which were given into the engineer's keeping, while Harrigan
took the bucket of water. They slipped out onto the deck and hurried
aft, keeping close to the side of the cabin, for the starlight would
show their figures to any watchful eyes. At the rear edge of the cabin
Harrigan halted Campbell and whispered: "There's a guard here. I got
past him in the dark, but two of us loaded down like this can never go
unseen down that ladder. We've got to get rid of him."

And he pulled out the knife which he had kept with him ever since the
outbreak of the mutiny. They waited without daring to draw breath until
the sailor came padding by with his naked feet. Harrigan crept out
behind him, and when the sailor turned at the rail, the Irishman leaped
in and struck, not with the blade, but with the haft of the knife; he
could not kill from behind.

If it had been a solid blow, the sailor would have crumpled silently as
the fireman had done a few moments before, but the impact glanced and
merely cut his scalp as it knocked him down. He fell with a shout which
was instantly answered from the front of the ship.

"Down the ladder! Run for it!" cried Harrigan to Campbell, and as the
engineer clambered down, he stood guard above.

The sailor leaped up from the deck and lunged with a knife gleaming in
his hand, but Harrigan slashed him across the arm, and he fled howling
into the dark. Before Hovey and his men could reach the spot, Harrigan
had climbed down the ladder with his precious bucket and was fleeing
aft to the wireless house.

As he reached it, lights were showing from the main cabin, and there
were choruses of yells announcing the discovery that Campbell was
missed. But Harrigan and the rest of the fugitives scarcely heard the
sounds. The Irishman was busy measuring as carefully as he could in the
dark dippers of water which the others drank.

There was no sleep that night, partly from fear lest the infuriated
mutineers should at last attempt to rush the wireless house, partly
because they ate sparingly but long of the meat which Harrigan carved
for them, and the bread, and partly also because of a singular odor
which they had not noticed when they were tortured by thirst and
hunger, and which now they observed for the first time. It was
peculiarly pungent and heavy with a sickening suggestion of sweetness
about it. None of them could describe it, saving Harrigan, who had been
much in the country and likened the odor to the smell of an old straw
stack which lay molding and rotting.

It seemed to increase--that smell--during the night, probably because
their strength was returning and all their senses grew more acute. It
was a torrid night, without moon, so that the blanket of dark pressed
the heat down upon them and seemed to stifle the very breath.

With the coming of the first light of the dawn they noticed a peculiar
phenomenon. Perhaps it was because of the evaporation of water under
the fire of the sun, but the _Heron_ seemed to be surrounded with a
white vapor which rose shimmering in the slant rays of the morning. But
even when the sun had risen well up in the sky, the vapor was still
visible, clinging like a wraith about the ship. They wondered idly upon
it, and wondered still more at the heat, which was now intense. They
were interrupted in their conjectures by the call of Kate summoning
them to the wireless house where Henshaw lay apparently at the last
gasp.

He had altered marvelously in the past two days. That resemblance which
he had always had to a mummy was now oddly intensified, for the cheeks
were fallen, the neck withered to scarcely half its former size, the
eyes sunk in purple hollows. He murmured without ceasing, his voice now
rising hardly above a low whisper. Kate sat beside him, passing her
hands slowly over his temples, for he complained of a fire rising
within his brain.

His complaints died away under her touches, and he said at last, calmly
but very, very faintly: "Beatrice, there is one thing I have not yet
told you."

"Yes?" she asked gently, though she averted her eyes, for all the long
hours he had filled with the stories of his crimes upon earth were
poured into the ear of the spirit of his Beatrice, as he thought. One
last and crowning atrocity was yet to be told.

"I have left out the greatest thing of all."

He paused to smile at the memory.

"You remember Samson's death, Beatrice? And how he pulled the house
down on the shoulders of his enemies?"

"Yes."

"That was a wonderful way to die--wonderful! But I, Beatrice, look at
me, child!--I have surpassed Samson! Listen! You will wonder and you
will admire when you hear it! When I got the word that you were dead, I
knew two things: first, that the prophecy of my death at sea would come
true, and secondly that my gold must perish with me. You will never
guess how long I pondered over a way to destroy my gold before I died!
You will think I could have simply thrown it into the sea? Yes, but the
ship was filled with men ready to mutiny, and they were hungry for my
wealth. They would never have allowed me to destroy that gold! So I
thought of a way--ah, it was an inspiration!--by which I could destroy
my body, my wealth, and the lives of all the mutineers at once. Like
Samson, I would pull the house on the heads of my enemies. Ha, ha, ha!"

His laughter was rather a grimace than a sound.

He went on: "See how cunningly, how carefully I worked! First I blew up
the three lifeboats so that there would be no escape for the crew. Then
I tampered with the dynamo so that it burned out, and they could not
send out a wireless call for help. That touch was the best of all.
Well, well! Then I went down into the hold, deep down, and I started a
fire in the cargo. And then--"

"Oh, my God!" stammered Sloan.

The others were white, but they gestured at Sloan to silence him. The
whisper continued: "And then I knew that they were done for. The wheat
would not break into a sudden flame, but it would smolder and glow and
spread from hour to hour and from day to day. The crew would know
nothing of it for a long time. But when they guessed at what was
happening, they would open the hatches to fight the fire with water.
Then what would happen? Ah, my dear, there was the crowning touch; for
when they opened the hatches, the current of air would feed the fire
and the ship would be instantly in flames. And so they would burn like
dogs with water, water all around them, and no boats to put off in--no
boats. Ha, ha, ha!"

He choked with his laughter and gasped for breath.

"If it were possible for a bodiless spirit to perish, I should think
that I am dying twice, Beatrice. The air is thick--this air of hell!"

He broke off short in his whispering and raised himself suddenly to an
elbow. With the coming of death his voice grew strong and rang clearly:
"They are in the corners--they are coming closer! Beatrice! Brush them
away with your fingers as cold as snow. Beatrice, oh, my dear!"

And he was dead as he fell back on the bunk.

Sloan was already on the deck outside the wireless house, shrieking
with all the power of his lungs: "Fire! Fire! The wheat in the hold!"




CHAPTER 37


And as Harrigan and McTee, followed by Kate and Campbell, ran out to
the open air, they saw the crowd of the mutineers surge across the
waist toward Sloan with upturned faces, wondering, and ready for
terror. Hovey broke through their midst.

"Hovey!" shouted McTee. "Look at the mist over the sides! Draw a
breath; smell of it! It is fire! Henshaw has set fire in the hold!"

It was plain to every brain in the instant. To every man came the
thought of the complaints of the firemen concerning the heat in the
hold of the _Heron_; the noxious odor like musty straw; the warmth, the
deadly warmth of the decks. A volcano smoldered beneath them, and the
mist was the sign of the coming outbreak of flames. And the mutineers
stood mute, gaping at one another, looking for some hope, some comfort,
and finding the same question repeated in every eye. McTee climbed down
the ladder to the waist, followed by the rest of the fugitives. Ten
minutes before they would have been torn to pieces by the wolf pack.
Now no man had a thought for anything save his own death.

"Hovey," ordered McTee in his voice of thunder, "tell these fellows
they must obey my voice from now on."

They roared, snatching at this ghost of a hope: "We will! We'll follow
Black McTee! Hovey has brought us to hell!"

In a moment everyone was in frantic motion. Campbell started for the
engine room to see what had caused the stopping of the ship. McTee
himself, followed by Harrigan and the stokers, went down to the
fireroom. It was fiery hot there, indeed. When the Scotchman swung down
the ladder into the hole, it was like a blast from a furnace, and the
air was foul with the nauseating odor of the smoldering wheat. The men
gasped and struggled for breath, and yet they began to work without
complaint.

All hands set to. The fires were shaken down and started afresh; the
coal shoveled out from the bunkers. Then a fireman collapsed without a
cry of warning. They carried him out to the upper air, and brought down
two of the sailors to take his place. And the sailors went without a
murmur. They were fighting for the one chance in ten thousand, the
chance of bringing the ship to shore before the fire burst out in flame
which would lick the _Heron_ from one end to the other within an hour.

McTee went up to the bridge to take the bearings and lay the course. By
the time his reckonings were completed, steam was up; Campbell had
remedied the trouble in the engine room; the propeller began to turn,
and a yell went up from the ship and tingled to heaven. When McTee came
down from the bridge to the waist, leaving Hovey at the wheel, a dozen
of the tars gathered about the new skipper, weeping and shouting, for
in their eyes he was the deliverer, it was he who was giving them the
fighting chance to live.

And how they fought! There was something awe-inspiring and almost
beyond the human in the fury with which they labored. It was in the
fireroom that their chief difficulty lay. The fireroom of a large
steamer is a veritable furnace, and when to this heat was added that
from the hold of the ship, it was truly a miracle that any living thing
could exist there.

But Harrigan was in charge. When men wilted and pitched to their faces
on the sooty, dusty floor, he trussed them under one arm and bore them
up to the air. Then he went back and drove them on again. Before the
end of that day, however, with the coast still a full thirty-hour run
ahead of them, it became literally impossible to continue longer in the
fireroom. But Harrigan would not leave. He had a hose introduced into
the hold. The men worked absolutely naked with a stream of water
playing on them. Now and again when one of them collapsed, Harrigan
snatched the fire bar or the shovel from the hands of the worker and
labored furiously until another substitute was found.

The necessity of his presence was amply demonstrated that night. The
Irishman was too exhausted to continue another minute, and the men
helped him to the deck and sluiced buckets of salt water over his
great, trembling body. To keep the men at work, Campbell went down in
the hole.

They had to carry him up in half an hour. Then McTee tried his hand. He
stood the heat as well as Harrigan, but he could not inspire such
daredevil enthusiasm in the men. They missed the raucous, cheery voice
of Harrigan; they missed the inspiring sight of that flame-red hair;
and they missed above all his peculiar driving force. In other words,
when Harrigan came among them, they felt _hope_, and when a man has
hope, he will work on in the face of death.

And at last McTee came up and begged Harrigan to go back. He went, and
found an empty fireroom and dying fires. He ran back to the deck, and
at his shout the dead veritably rose to life. Men staggered to their
feet to follow him below. Every man on the ship took his turn. Hovey
came down and passed coal; McTee came down and wielded the fire bar,
doing the labor of three men while he could endure.

And the _Heron_ drove on toward the shore. The morning passed; the
afternoon wore away. It was a matter of hours now before the shore
would be in sight, and McTee spread this news among the crew. He sent
little Kamasura and Shida, the cabin boys, running here and there
saying to every man they passed: "Four hours! Four hours! Four hours!"
And then: "Three hours! Three hours! Three hours!"

And the crew swallowed whisky neat and returned to the fireroom.

At sunset, dim as a shadow, a thing to be guessed at rather than known,
the man on the bridge sighted land. The word spread like lightning. The
staggering workers in the fireroom heard and joined the cheer which
Harrigan started. Then the catastrophe came.

A torch of red fire licked up the stern of the ship; the flames had
eaten their way out to the open air!

It was the quick action of McTee which kept the panic from spreading to
the hold of the ship at once and bringing up every one of the workers
from the fireroom. He gathered the sailors on deck who had strength
enough left to walk, and they made a line and attacked the flames with
buckets of water. There was, of course, no possibility of quelling the
fire at its source, for by this time the hold of the ship where the
wheat was stowed must have been one glowing mass of smoldering matter.
Yet they were able, for a time, to keep the course of the fire from
spreading over the decks of the ship.

With this work fairly started, McTee ran back to the forward cabin and
upper deck of the _Heron_ and set several men to tear down some of the
framework, sufficient at least to build enough rafts to maintain the
crew in the water. So the three sections of the work went on--the
firefighting, the lifesaving, and the driving of the ship. McTee on
deck managed two ends of it; Harrigan in the fireroom handled the most
desperate responsibility. It seemed as if these two men by their naked
will power were lifting the lives of the crew away from the touch of
death and hurling the ship toward the shore.

And now for an hour, for two hours, that ghastly labor continued. The
entire stern of the _Heron_ was a sheet of flames when the last workers
staggered up from the fireroom, their skin seared and blistered by the
terrific heat. Last of all came Harrigan, raving and cursing and
imploring the men to return to their work. As he staggered up the deck,
reeling and sobbing hoarsely, Kate Malone ran to him. She pointed out
across the waters ahead of the ship. There rose the black shadow of the
shore and under it a thin line of white--the breakers!

Now by McTee's direction the rafts were hoisted and dragged over the
side of the ship, while one frail line of men remained to struggle
against the encroaching flames.

They were licking into the waist of the _Heron_, and the wireless house
was a mass of red; White Henshaw was burning at sea, and the prophecy
was fulfilled.

The last of the rafts were hoisted overboard and half a dozen men
tumbled into each. When the rest of the crew were overboard, McTee,
Kate, and Harrigan, lingering behind by mutual consent, took one raft
to themselves. All about them tossed the other rafts, and not one man
of all the crowd had thought of the golden treasure which they were
abandoning with the _Heron_. Each might be carrying a few gold pieces,
but the wealth of White Henshaw would go back into the sea from which
it came.

They had not abandoned the flaming ship too soon. A fresh breeze was
sweeping from the ocean onto the shore, and red tongues licked about
the main cabin and darted like reaching hands into the heart of the
sky. By these flashes they could make out the struggling rafts where
the sailors cheered and yelled in the triumph of their escape. But
McTee set about erecting a jury sail.

He wrenched off two strips of board from their raft and across these he
and Harrigan affixed their shirts. The same wind which had lashed the
fires forward on the _Heron_ now hurried the fugitives toward the
shore. They had a serious purpose in outstripping the rest of the
rafts, because when the mutineers reached the shore, the mood of
gratitude which they held for Harrigan and McTee was sure to change,
for these two men could submit enough evidence to hang them in any
country in the world.

Looking back, the _Heron_ was a belching volcano, which suddenly lifted
in the center with the sound of a dozen siege guns in volleyed unison,
and a column of fire vaulted high into the heavens. Before they reached
the tossing heart of the breakers, the _Heron_ was dwindling and
sliding, fragment by fragment into the sea.

Through those breakers the last light from the ship helped them, and
the wind tugging at their little jury sail aided to drive them on until
they could swing off the raft and walk toward the beach, carrying Kate
between them. On the safe, dry sands they turned, and as they looked
back, the Heron slid forward into the ocean and quenched her fires with
a hiss that was like a far-heard whisper of the sea.




CHAPTER 38


Meanwhile the shouts of the mutineers rang louder and louder as their
rafts edged in toward the land, so the three turned again and made
directly inland. A hundred yards from the edge of the water they were
in a dense jungle such as only exists in a Central American swamp
region, but they waded and splashed on, and clambered over rotten
stumps, slick with wet moss, and stepped on fragments of wood that
crumbled under their feet. And all the time they kept the girl between
them, lifting her clear of the noisome water as much as possible.

The shouting of the mutineers, however, urged them on, and from the
sound of the voices there was no doubt that Hovey and his men were
combing the marsh for the fugitives. Torches had been made by the
sailors, and behind them, now and then, they caught a glimpse of a
winking eye of light. This drove them on, and just when the shouts of
the mutineers began to die away, the marsh ended as abruptly as it had
begun, and they started to climb a slope where the thicket changed to
an almost open wood. The rise was not long, for after some hours of
weary trudging, they reached a road.

Down this they straggled with stumbling feet. They had not spoken for
nearly two hours, as though they wished to save even the breath of
speech for some trial which might still await them. Kate was half
unconscious with fatigue, and McTee on her left and Harrigan on her
right carried most of her weight.

In this manner they came in sight of a light which developed into a
low-roofed, broad house with a hospitable veranda stretching about it.
They made directly for it, traversing a level field until they came to
the door. McTee supported Kate while Harrigan knocked. There was
silence within the house, and then a whisper, a stir, the padding of a
slippered foot, and the door was jerked open. A tall man with a narrow,
pointed beard appeared. He held a lantern in one hand and a pistol in
the other; for those were troubled times in that republic. The light
fell full on the haggard face of Kate, and the man started back.

"Enter, my children," he said in Spanish, and tossing his weapon onto a
little hall table, he held out his hand to them.

With a great voice he brought his family and servants about them in a
few seconds. To a wide-eyed girl with a frightened voice, he gave the
care of Kate, and the two went off together. The master of the house
himself attended to the needs of Harrigan and McTee.

There were few questions asked. This was a question of dire need, and
the Spanish-American loves to show his hospitality. Talking was for the
morning. In the meantime his guests would require what? Perhaps sleep?
Perhaps a bath first? They answered him with one voice, for they both
spoke a little Spanish, picked up in their wanderings. Sleep!

The next day they woke about noon to find clothes laid out for them,
the immaculate white clothes which the tropics require. They were led
to a high-ceilinged bathroom cool with glazed, white bricks which lined
it, where the two servants poured over them bucket after bucket of cold
water, and the grime of the voyage and the labors in the fireroom and
the mighty weariness of their muscles disappeared little by little in
slow degrees. Then a shave, then the white clothes, and they were ready
for presentation to Senor Jose, Barrydos y Maria y Leon and his family.

And here was a time of many words indeed. It was McTee who told the
story of the wreck, and even with his broken Spanish the tale was so
vivid that Senor Jose was forced to rise and walk up and down the room,
calling out upon a hundred various saints. In the end it was clear in
his eyes that he had to deal with two heroes. As such they could have
lived with him as honored guests forever.

Then Kate came into the room with the daughter of the house. She wore a
green dress of some light material which fluttered into folds at every
move. The Spaniard straightened up from his chair. The two big men
followed suit, staring wide-eyed upon her. It seemed as if some miracle
had been worked in her, for they looked in vain for any traces of her
helpless weariness of the night before.

There was a color in her cheeks and her eyes were bright and quiet. To
Senor Jose Barrydos y Maria y Leon she gave both her hands, and he
bowed over them and kissed them both. His courtliness made Harrigan and
McTee exchange a glance, perhaps of envy and perhaps of disquiet, for
she accepted this profound courtesy with an ease as if she had been
accustomed to nothing else all her life.

But what a smile there was for each of them afterward! It left them
speechless, so that they glowered upon each other and were glad of the
soft flow of Senor Jose's words as he led them in to the breakfast
table.

And when the meal had progressed a little and some of the edge of the
novelty of the situation and story had worn away, the Spaniard said:
"But is it not true? Strange news floats in the air this week."

"What news?" asked Harrigan. "Our wireless was out of commission for
days."

"True! Then you must learn from me?"

He drew a breath and stiffened in his chair, then with a gesture of
apology and a smile he added: "Why should I hunt for pompous words? I
can tell you in one phrase: the world is at war, gentlemen!"

They merely gaped upon him.

"German troops have entered Belgium; France, England, and Russia are at
war with Germany and Austria!"

He waited for the astonishment to die away in their eyes.

Kate was shaking her head. "It is impossible," she said. "There may be
a disturbance, but the world is past the time of great wars. Men are
now too civilized, and--"

Here she stopped, for her eyes fell on the faces of Harrigan and McTee.
Civilized? No; she had seen enough to know that civilization strikes no
deeper in human nature than clothes go to change the man.

"Civilized?" Don Jose had taken her up. "Ah, madam, already wild tales
reach us of the Germans in Belgium."

"But there was a treaty," she cried, "and the greatest nations in the
world have guaranteed the neutrality of Belgium. Germany herself--"

"True!" said Jose; "but it is because of the violation of Belgian
neutrality, among other things, that England has entered the war, it is
said."

"Ah-h!" said Harrigan, lapsing suddenly from Spanish into his Irish
brogue. "Thrue for ye, man! John Bull will take the Kaiser by the
throat. In time of peace, why, to hell with England, say I, like all
good Irishmen; but in time av war-r, it's shoulder to shoulder, John
Bull an' Paddy, say I, an' we'll lick the wor-r-rld!"

And McTee broke in savagely. "You forget the Scotch. Without the
Scotch, England and Ireland--what could they do? Nothing!"

"Could they not?" said Harrigan, with rising temper. "I tell ye, ye
black Highlander, that wan Irishman--"

"Hush," said Kate earnestly; for the Spaniard was staring at them in
amaze. "It is a world war, and no time for jealousy. England--Scotland
--Ireland--and America, too, in time--we will all be fighting for one
purpose. And when the last test comes, the United States--"

She stopped with a gesture of pride, and Harrigan said with deep
feeling: "Aye, they're a hard lot, the Yankees. But as for the Scotch,"
he went on in a murmur which only McTee could hear--"as for the Scotch,
I wouldn't be wipin' my feet on 'em, when it comes to the fightin'.
D'ye hear me, McTee?"

"And understand," said McTee, smiling broadly, so that none of the rest
might understand; "our time is close at hand, Harrigan. We're on dry
land."

"We are--thank God," answered Harrigan, "but play the game, McTee, till
the girl is cared for."

In the meantime Senor Jose had explained to Kate the nearness of the
city--El Ciudad Grande--for she had been asking many urgent questions.
The upshot of their conversation was that their host offered to take
them immediately into the town, where they could find accommodation at
the one hotel--if they refused his further hospitality. So in half an
hour Senor Jose's carriage of state was harnessed and the four
journeyed into El Ciudad Grande.

Senor Jose went with them to explain to the hotel owner that these were
his guests--his dear friends--his friends of many years' standing--in
fact, his relatives in close blood. In short, he recommended the party
to the special care of the hotelkeeper. Business called the hospitable
Spaniard away. He refused to accept any consideration for the clothes
which he donated to the party, and McTee jingled a handful of Henshaw's
gold in vain. Senor Jose must depart, but he would return the next day.
So the three stood alone together at last. Harrigan was the first to
speak.

"I've an engagement. I'm afther havin' some important business on hand,
Kate, colleen, so I'll be steppin' out." And he turned to go.

"Wait," she called. "I know what your engagements are when the Irish
comes so thick on your tongue, Dan. You were about to have an
engagement also, Angus?"

McTee glowered on Harrigan for having so clumsily betrayed them.

"You are like children," she said softly, "and you let me read your
minds."

She bowed her head in long thought.

Then: "Didn't we pass the sign of the British consul down the street
over that little building?"

"Yes," said McTee, wondering, and again she was lost in thought.

Then she raised her head and stepped close to them with that smile,
half whimsical and half sad.

"I'm going to ask you to let me be alone for a time--for a long time.
It will be sunset in five hours. Will you let me have that long to do
some hard thinking? And will you promise me during that time that you
will not fly at each other's throats the moment you are out of my
sight? For what I will have to say at sunset I know will make a great
deal of difference in your attitude to each other."

"I'll promise," said Harrigan suddenly. "I've waited so long--I can
stand five hours more."

"I'll promise," said McTee; but he scowled upon the floor.




CHAPTER 39


They left her and walked from the hotel. At the door Harrigan turned
fiercely upon the Scotchman.

"Do what ye please for the five hours, McTee, but give me the room I
need for breathin'. D'ye hear? Otherwise I'll be forgettin' me
promises."

"Do I hear ye?" answered McTee, snarling. "Aye, growl while you may.
I'll stop that throat of yours for good--tonight."

He turned on his heel, and the two men separated. Harrigan struck with
a long swing out over a road which led into the rolling fields near the
little town. He walked rapidly, and his thoughts kept pace, for he was
counting his chances to win Kate as a miser counts his hoard of gold.
Two pictures weighed large in his mind. One was of Kate at ease in the
home of the Spaniard. Such ease would never be his; she came from
another social world--a higher sphere. The second picture was of McTee
climbing down from the wireless house and calmly assuming command of
the mutineers in the crisis. Such a maneuver would never have occurred
to the Irishman, and it was only through that maneuver that the ship
had been brought to shore, for nothing save the iron will of McTee
could have directed the mutineers.

When the sun hung low, he turned and strode back toward the village,
and despair trailed him like his shadow.

He began to see clearly now what he had always feared. She loved
McTee--McTee, who spoke clear, pure English, when he chose, and who
could talk of many things. She loved McTee, but she dared not avow that
love for fear of infuriating Harrigan and thereby risking the life of
the Scotchman. It grew plainer and plainer. With the thought of Kate
came another, far different, and yet blending one with another. When he
reached the village, it was still a short time before sunset. He went
straight to the British consulate and entered, for he had reached the
solution of his puzzle.

"My name's Harrigan," he said to the little man with the sideburns and
the studious eyes, "and I've come to know if the old country has sent
for volunteers. I want to go over."

"The old country," said the consul, "has called for volunteers, and I
have discovered a means of sending our boys across the water; but"--and
here he examined Harrigan shrewdly--"but it's an easy thing to take an
Irish name. How am I to know you're not a German, my friend? I've never
seen you before."

Harrigan swelled.

"A German? Me?" he muttered, and then, his head tilted back: "Ye little
wan-eyed, lantern-jawed, flat-headed block, is it me--is it Harrigan ye
call a German? Shtep out from behind the desk an' let me see av you're
a man!"

Strangely enough, the consul did not seem irritated by this outburst.
He was, in fact, smiling. Then his hand went out to the Irishman.

"Mr. Harrigan," he said, "I'm honored by knowing you."

Harrigan stared and accepted the hand with caution; there was still
battle in his eyes.

"And can you send me over?" he asked doubtfully.

"I can. As I said before, we've raised a small fund for just this
purpose."

He drew out a piece of paper and commenced taking down the particulars
of Harrigan's name and birth and other details. Then a short
typewritten note signed by the consul ended the interview. He gave
Harrigan directions about how he could reach a shipping agent on the
eastern coast, handed over the note, and the Irishman stepped out of
the little office already on his way to the world war. He took no
pleasure in his resolution, but wandered slowly back toward the hotel
with downward head. He would speak a curt farewell and step out of the
lives of the two. It would be very simple unless McTee showed some
exultation, but if he did--Here Harrigan refused to think further.

It was well after sunset when he crossed the veranda, and at the door
he found McTee striding up and down.

"Harrigan," said McTee.

"Well?", growled Harrigan.

"Stand over here close to me, and keep your face shut while I'm
speaking. It won't take me long."

The words were insulting enough, but the voice which spoke them was
sadly subdued.

"Listen," said McTee. "What I've got to say is harder for me to do than
anything I've ever done in my life. So don't make me repeat anything.
Harrigan, I've tried to beat you by fair means or foul ever since we
met--ever since you saved my hide in the Ivilei district of Honolulu.
I've tried to get you down, and I've failed. I fought you"--here he
ground his teeth in agony--"and you beat me."

"It was the bucking of the deck that beat you," put in Harrigan.

"Shut up till I'm through or I'll wring your neck and break your back!
I've failed to down you, Harrigan. You beat me on the Mary Rogers. You
made a fool of me on the island. And on the Heron--"

He paused again, breathing hard.

"On the _Heron_, it was you who brought us food and water when we were
dying. And afterward, when Henshaw died, I jumped out before the
mutineers and took command of them because I thought I could win back
in Kate's mind any ground which I'd lost before. I paraded the deck
before her eyes; I gave commands; I was the man of the hour; I was
driving the _Heron_ to the shore in spite of the fire."

"You were," admitted Harrigan sadly. "It was a great work you did,
McTee. It was that which won her--"

"But even when I was in command, you proved yourself the better man,
Harrigan."

The Irishman leaned back against the wall, gasping, weak with
astonishment.

McTee went on: "I paraded the deck; I made a play to make her admire
me, and for a while I succeeded, until the time came when you were
carried up to the deck too weak to keep the men at work in the
fireroom. Ah, Harrigan, that was a great moment to me. I said to Kate:
'Harrigan has done well, but of course he can't control men--his mind
is too simple.'"

"Did you say that?" murmured Harrigan, and hatred made his voice soft,
almost reverent.

"I did, and I went on: 'I suppose I'll have to go down there and drive
the lads back to their work.' So down I went, but you know what
happened. They wouldn't work for me. They stood around looking stupid
at me and left me alone in the fireroom, and I had to come back on
deck, in the sight of Kate, and rouse you out of your sleep and beg you
to go back and try to make the lads keep at their work. And you got up
to your knees, struggling to get back your consciousness! And you
staggered to your feet, and you called to the firemen who lay senseless
and sick on the deck around you--sick for sleep--and when they heard
you call, they got up, groaning, and they reeled after you back to
their work in the fireroom, and some of them dragged themselves along
on their hands and knees. Oh, God!"

He struck his clenched fist across his eyes.

"And all the time I was watching the awe and the wonder come up like a
fire in the eyes of Kate, while she looked after you."

Harrigan watched him with the same stupid amazement.

"Harrigan," said McTee at last, "you've won her. When I walked out by
myself today, I saw that I was the only obstacle between her and her
happiness. She doesn't dare tell you she loves you, for fear that I'll
try to kill you. So I've decided to step out from between--I _have_
stepped out! I'm going back to Scotland and get into the war. If I have
fighting enough, I can forget the girl, maybe, and you! I've talked to
the British consul already, and he's given me a note that will take me
over the water. So, Harrigan, I've merely come to say good-by to you--
and you can say good-by for me to Kate."

"Wait," said Harrigan. "There are a good many kinds of fools, but a
Scotch fool is the worst of all. Take that paper out of your pocket and
tear it up. Ah-h, McTee, ye blind man! Can't ye see that gir-rl's been
eatin' out her hear-rt for the love av ye, damn your eyes? Can't ye see
that the only thing that keeps her from throwin' her ar-rms around your
neck is the fear of Harrigan? Look!"

He pulled out the note which the consul had given him.

"I've got the same thing you have. I'm going to go over the water. I
tell you, I've seen her eyes whin she looked at ye, McTee, an' that's
how I know she loves ye. Tear up your paper! A blight on ye! May ye
have long life and make the girl happy--an' rot in hell after!"

"By God," said McTee, "we've both been thinking the same thing at the
same time. And maybe we're both wrong. Kate said she had something to
say to us. Let's see her first and hear her speak."

"It'll break my heart to hear her confess she loves ye, McTee--but I'll
go!"

They went to the sleepy clerk behind the desk and asked him to send up
word to Miss Malone that they wished to see her.

"Ah, Miss Malone," said the clerk, nodding, "before she left--"

"Left?" echoed the two giants in voices of thunder.

"She gave me this note to deliver to you."

And he passed them the envelope. Each of them placed a hand upon it and
stared stupidly at the other.

"Open it!" said Harrigan hoarsely.

"I'm troubled with my old failing--a weakness of the eyes," said McTee.
"Open it yourself."

Harrigan opened it at last and drew out the paper within. They stood
under a light, shoulder to shoulder, and read with difficulty, for the
hand of Harrigan which held the paper shook.

Dear lads, dear Dan and Angus:

As soon as you left me, I went to the British consul, and from him I
learned the shortest way of cutting across country to the railroad. By
the time you read this, I am on the train and speeding north to the
States.

I have known for a long time that the only thing which keeps you from
being fast friends is the love which each of you says he has for me. So
I have decided to step from between you, for there is nothing on earth
so glorious as the deep friendship of one strong man for another.

I fear you may try to follow me, but I warn you that it would be
useless. I have taken a course of training, and I am qualified as a
nurse. The Red Cross of America will soon be sending units across the
water to care for the wounded of the Allies. I shall go with one of the
first units. You might be able to trace me to the States, but you will
never be able to trace me overseas. This is good-by.

It is hard to say it in writing. I want to take your hands and tell you
how much you mean to me. But I could not wait to do that. For your own
sakes I have to flee from you both.

Now that I have said good-by, it is easier to add another thing. I care
for both of you more than for any man I have ever known, but one of you
I love with all my soul. Even now I dare not say which, for it might
make enmity and jealousy between you, and enmity between such men as
you means only one thing--death.

I have tried to find courage to stand before you and say which of you I
love, but I cannot. At the last moment I grow weak at the thought of
the battle which would follow. My only resort is to resign him I care
for beyond all friends, and him I love beyond all other men.

I know that when I am gone, you will become fast friends, and together
you will be kings of men. And in time--for a man's life is filled with
actions which rub out all memories--you will forget that you loved me,
I know; but perhaps you will not forget that because I resigned you
both, I built a foundation of rock for your friendship.

You will be happy, you will be strong, you will be true to one another.
And for that I am glad. But to you whom I love: Oh, my dear, it is
breaking my heart to leave you!

Kate

One hand of each was on the paper as they lowered it and stared into
each other's face, with a black doubt, and a wild hope. Then of one
accord they raised the paper and read it through again.

"And to think," muttered Harrigan at last, "that I should have ruined
her happiness. I could tear my heart out, McTee!"

"Harrigan," said the big Scotchman solemnly, "it is you she means. See!
She cried over the paper while she was writing. No woman could weep for
Black McTee!"

"And no woman could write like that to Harrigan. Angus, you can keep
the knowledge that she loves you, but let me keep the letter. Ah-h,
McTee, I'll be afther keepin' it forninst me heart!"

"Let's go outside," said McTee. "There is no air in this room."

They went out into the black night, and as they walked, each kept his
hand upon the letter, so that it seemed to be a power which tied them
together.

"Angus," said Harrigan after a time, "we'll be fightin' for the letter
soon. Why should we? I know every line of it by heart."

"I know every word," answered McTee.

"I've a thought," said Harrigan. "In the ould days, whin a great man
died, they used to burn his body. An' now I'm feelin' as if somethin'
had died in me--the hope av winnin' Kate, McTee. So let's burn her
letter between us, eh?"

"Harrigan," said McTee with heartfelt emotion, "that thought is well
worthy of you!"

They knelt on the little spot. They placed the paper between them. Each
scratched a match and lighted one side of the paper; the flames rose
and met in the middle of the letter. Yet they did not watch the
progress of the fire; by the sudden flare of light they gazed steadily
into each other's face, straining their eyes as the light died away as
though each had discovered in the other something new and strange. When
they looked down, the paper was merely a dim, red glow which passed
away as quickly as a flush dies from the face, and the wind carried
away the frail ashes. Then they rose and walked shoulder to shoulder on
and into the night.









End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Harrigan, by Max Brand

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HARRIGAN ***

***** This file should be named 9791.txt or 9791.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/9/7/9/9791/

Produced by Suzanne Shell, Anuradha Valsa Raj, and Project Gutenberg

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
