Project Gutenberg's Samantha on the Woman Question, by Marietta Holley

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Samantha on the Woman Question

Author: Marietta Holley

Posting Date: February 12, 2015 [EBook #7833]
Release Date: April, 2005
First Posted: May 20, 2003

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SAMANTHA ON THE WOMAN QUESTION ***




Produced by Eric Eldred, William Flis and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.










[Illustration: "And I wonder if there is a woman in the land that can
blame Serepta for wantin' her rights."]


                      SAMANTHA ON THE

                      WOMAN QUESTION

                            BY

                      MARIETTA HOLLEY

                   "Josiah Allen's Wife"

                        Author of

       "Samantha at Saratoga," "My Opinions" and
                 "Betsey Bobbet's," etc.




CONTENTS

   I. "SHE WANTED HER RIGHTS"

  II. "THEY CAN'T BLAME HER"

 III. "POLLY'S EYES GROWED TENDER"

  IV. "STRIVIN' WITH THE EMISSARY"

   V. "HE WUZ DRETFUL POLITE"

  VI. "CONCERNING MOTH-MILLERS AND MINNY FISH"

 VII. "NO HAMPERIN' HITCHIN' STRAPS"

VIII. "OLD MOM NATER LISTENIN'"

  IX. THE WOMEN'S PARADE

   X. "THE CREATION SEARCHIN' SOCIETY"




ILLUSTRATIONS

"AND I WONDER IF THERE'S A WOMAN IN THE LAND THAT CAN BLAME SEREPTA FOR
WANTIN' HER RIGHTS" (p. 29). Frontispiece

"I WANTED TO VISIT THE CAPITOL OF OUR COUNTRY.... SO WE LAID OUT TO GO"

"HE'D ENTERED POLITICAL LIFE WHERE THE BIBLE WUZN'T POPULAR; HE'D NEVER
READ FURTHER THAN GULLIVER'S EPISTLE TO THE LILIPUTIANS"

"SEZ JOSIAH, 'DOES THAT THING KNOW ENOUGH TO VOTE?'"




I

"SHE WANTED HER RIGHTS"


Lorinda Cagwin invited Josiah and me to a reunion of the Allen family at
her home nigh Washington, D.C., the birthplace of the first Allen we knowed
anything about, and Josiah said:

"Bein' one of the best lookin' and influential Allens on earth now, it
would be expected on him to attend to it."

And I fell in with the idee, partly to be done as I would be done by if
it wuz the relation on my side, and partly because by goin' I could hit
two birds with one stun, as the poet sez. Indeed, I could hit four on 'em.

My own cousin, Diantha Trimble, lived in a city nigh Lorinda's and I had
promised to visit her if I wuz ever nigh her, and help bear her burdens for
a spell, of which burden more anon and bom-by.

Diantha wuz one bird, the Reunion another, and the third bird I had in my
mind's eye wuz the big outdoor meeting of the suffragists that wuz to be
held in the city where Diantha lived, only a little ways from Lorinda's.

And the fourth bird and the biggest one I wuz aimin' to hit from this tower
of ourn wuz Washington, D.C. I wanted to visit the Capitol of our country,
the center of our great civilization that stands like the sun in the solar
system, sendin' out beams of power and wisdom and law and order, and
justice and injustice, and money and oratory, and talk and talk, and wind
and everything, to the uttermost points of our vast possessions, and from
them clear to the ends of the earth. I wanted to see it, I wanted to like a
dog. So we laid out to go.

[Illustration: "I wanted to visit the Capitol of our country.... So we
laid out to go."]

Lorinda lived on the old Allen place, and I always sot store by her, and
her girl, Polly, wuz, as Thomas J. said, a peach. She had spent one of her
college vacations with us, and a sweeter, prettier, brighter girl I don't
want to see. Her name is Pauline, but everybody calls her Polly.

The Cagwins are rich, and Polly had every advantage money could give,
and old Mom Nater gin her a lot of advantages money couldn't buy, beauty
and intellect, a big generous heart and charm. And you know the Cagwins
couldn't bought that at no price. Charm in a girl is like the perfume in a
rose, and can't be bought or sold. And you can't handle or describe either
on 'em exactly. But what a influence they have; how they lay holt of your
heart and fancy.

Royal Gray, the young man who wuz payin' attention to her, stopped once
for a day or two in Jonesville with Polly and her Ma on their way to the
Cagwins' camp in the Adirondacks. And we all liked him so well that we
agreed in givin' him this extraordinary praise, we said he wuz worthy of
Polly, we knowed of course that wuz the highest enconium possible for us to
give.

Good lookin', smart as a whip, and deep, you could see that by lookin' into
his eyes, half laughin' and half serious eyes and kinder sad lookin' too
under the fun, as eyes must be in this world of ourn if they look back fur,
or ahead much of any. A queer world this is, and kinder sad and mysterious,
behind all the good and glory on't.

He wuz jest out of Harvard school and as full of life and sperits as a
colt let loose in a clover field. He went out in the hay field, he and
Polly, and rode home on top of a load of hay jest as nateral and easy and
bare-headed as if he wuz workin' for wages, and he the only son of a
millionaire--we all took to him.

Well, when the news got out that I wuz goin' to visit Washington, D.C., all
the neighbors wanted to send errents by me. Betsy Bobbet Slimpsey wanted a
dozen Patent Office books for scrap books for her poetry.

Uncle Nate Gowdey wanted me to go to the Agricultural Buro and git him a
paper of lettuce seed. And Solomon Sypher wanted me to git him a new kind
of string beans and some cowcumber seeds.

Uncle Jarvis Bentley, who wuz goin' to paint his house, wanted me to ask
the President what kind of paint he used on the White House. He thought it
ort to be a extra kind to stand the sharp glare that wuz beatin' down on it
constant, and to ask him if he didn't think the paint would last longer and
the glare be mollified some if they used pure white and clear ile in it,
and left off whitewash and karseen.

Ardelia Rumsey, who is goin' to be married, wanted me, if I see any new
kinds of bedquilt patterns at the White House or the Senator's housen, to
git patterns for 'em. She said she wuz sick of sun flowers and blazin'
stars. She thought mebby they'd have sunthin' new, spread eagle style. She
said her feller wuz goin' to be connected with the Govermunt and she
thought it would be appropriate.

And I asked her how. And she said he wuz goin' to git a patent on a new
kind of jack knife.

I told her that if she wanted a govermunt quilt and wanted it appropriate
she ort to have a crazy quilt.

And she said she had jest finished a crazy quilt with seven thousand
pieces of silk in it, and each piece trimmed with seven hundred stitches
of feather stitchin'--she'd counted 'em. And then I remembered seein' it.
There wuz a petition fer wimmen's rights and I remember Ardelia couldn't
sign it for lack of time. She wanted to, but she hadn't got the quilt more
than half done. It took the biggest heft of two years to do it. And so less
important things had to be put aside.

And Ardelia's mother wanted to sign it, but she couldn't owin' to a
bed-spread she wuz makin'. She wuz quiltin' in Noah's Ark and all the
animals on a Turkey red quilt. I remember she wuz quiltin' the camel that
day and couldn't be disturbed, so we didn't git the names. It took the old
lady three years, and when it wuz done it wuz a sight to behold, though I
wouldn't want to sleep under so many animals. But folks went from fur and
near to see it, and I enjoyed lookin' at it that day.

Zebulin Coon wanted me to carry a new hen coop of hisen to git patented.
And I thought to myself I wonder if they will ask me to carry a cow.

And sure enough Elnathan Purdy wanted me to dicker for a calf from Mount
Vernon, swop one of his yearlin's for it.

But the errents Serepta Pester sent wuz fur more hefty and momentous than
all the rest put together, calves, hen coop, cow and all.

And when she told 'em over to me, and I meditated on her reasons for
sendin' 'em and her need of havin' 'em done, I felt that I would do the
errents for her if a breath wuz left in my body. She come for a all day's
visit; and though she is a vegetable widow and humbly, I wuz middlin' glad
to see her. But thinkses I as I carried her things into my bedroom, "She'll
want to send some errent by me"; and I wondered what it would be.

And so it didn't surprise me when she asked me if I would lobby a little
for her in Washington. I spozed it wuz some new kind of tattin' or fancy
work. I told her I shouldn't have much time but would try to git her some
if I could.

And she said she wanted me to lobby myself. And then I thought mebby it wuz
a new kind of dance and told her, "I wuz too old to lobby, I hadn't lobbied
a step since I wuz married."

And then she explained she wanted me to canvas some of the Senators.

And I hung back and asked her in a cautious tone, "How many she wanted
canvassed, and how much canvas it would take?"

I had a good many things to buy for my tower, and though I wanted to
obleege Serepta, I didn't feel like runnin' into any great expense for
canvas.

And then she broke off from that subject, and said she wanted her rights
and wanted the Whiskey Ring broke up.

And she talked a sight about her children, and how bad she felt to be
parted from 'em, and how she used to worship her husband and how her
hull life wuz ruined and the Whiskey Ring had done it, that and wimmen's
helpless condition under the law and she cried and wep' and I did. And
right while I wuz cryin' onto that gingham apron, she made me promise to
carry them two errents of hern to the President and git 'em done for her if
I possibly could.

She wanted the Whiskey Ring destroyed and her rights, and she wanted 'em
both inside of two weeks.

I told her I didn't believe she could git 'em done inside that length of
time, but I would tell the President about it, and I thought more'n likely
as not he would want to do right by her. "And," sez I, "if he sets out to,
he can haul them babies of yourn out of that Ring pretty sudden."

And then to git her mind offen her sufferin's, I asked how her sister Azuba
wuz gittin' along? I hadn't heard from her for years. She married Phileman
Clapsaddle, and Serepty spoke out as bitter as a bitter walnut, and sez
she:

"She's in the poor-house."

"Why, Serepta Pester!" sez I, "what do you mean?"

"I mean what I say, my sister, Azuba Clapsaddle, is in the poor-house."

"Why, where is their property gone?" sez I. "They wuz well off. Azuba had
five thousand dollars of her own when she married him."

"I know it," sez she, "and I can tell you, Josiah Alien's wife, where their
property has gone, it has gone down Phileman Clapsaddle's throat. Look down
that man's throat and you will see 150 acres of land, a good house and
barn, twenty sheep and forty head of cattle."

"Why-ee!" sez I.

"Yes, and you'll see four mules, a span of horses, two buggies, a double
sleigh, and three buffalo robes. He's drinked 'em all up, and two horse
rakes, a cultivator, and a thrashin' machine."

"Why-ee!" sez I agin. "And where are the children?"

"The boys have inherited their father's habits and drink as bad as he duz
and the oldest girl has gone to the bad."

"Oh dear! oh dear me!" sez I, and we both sot silent for a spell. And then
thinkin' I must say sunthin' and wantin' to strike a safe subject and a
good lookin' one, I sez:

"Where is your Aunt Cassandra's girl? That pretty girl I see to your house
once?"

"That girl is in the lunatick asylum."

"Serepta Pester," sez I, "be you tellin' the truth?"

"Yes, I be, the livin' truth. She went to New York to buy millinery goods
for her mother's store. It wuz quite cool when she left home and she hadn't
took off her winter clothes, and it come on brilin' hot in the city, and in
goin' about from store to store the heat and hard work overcome her and she
fell down in a sort of faintin' fit and wuz called drunk and dragged off to
a police court by a man who wuz a animal in human shape. And he misused her
in such a way that she never got over the horror of what befell her when
she come to to find herself at the mercy of a brute in a man's shape. She
went into a melancholy madness and wuz sent to the asylum."

I sithed a long and mournful sithe and sot silent agin for quite a spell.
But thinkin' I must be sociable I sez:

"Your aunt Cassandra is well, I spoze?"

"She is moulderin' in jail," sez she.

"In jail? Cassandra in jail!"

"Yes, in jail." And Serepta's tone wuz now like worm-wood and gall.

"You know she owns a big property in tenement houses and other buildings
where she lives. Of course her taxes wuz awful high, and she didn't expect
to have any voice in tellin' how that money, a part of her own property
that she earned herself in a store, should be used. But she had been
taxed high for new sidewalks in front of some of her buildin's. And then
another man come into power in that ward, and he naterally wanted to make
some money out of her, so he ordered her to build new sidewalks. And she
wouldn't tear up a good sidewalk to please him or anybody else, so she wuz
put to jail for refusin' to comply with the law."

Thinkses I, I don't believe the law would have been so hard on her if she
hadn't been so humbly. The Pesters are a humbly lot. But I didn't think it
out loud, and didn't ophold the law for feelin' so. I sez in pityin' tones,
for I wuz truly sorry for Cassandra Keeler:

"How did it end?"

"It hain't ended," sez she, "it only took place a month ago and she has got
her grit up and won't pay; and no knowin' how it will end; she lays there
amoulderin'."

I don't believe Cassanda wuz mouldy, but that is Serepta's way of talkin',
very flowery.

"Well," sez I, "do you think the weather is goin' to moderate?"

I truly felt that I dassent speak to her about any human bein' under the
sun, not knowin' what turn she would give to the talk, bein' so embittered.
But I felt that the weather wuz safe, and cotton stockin's, and hens, and
factory cloth, and I kep' her down on them for more'n two hours.

But good land! I can't blame her for bein' embittered agin men and the laws
they've made, for it seems as if I never see a human creeter so afflicted
as Serepta Pester has been all her life.

Why, her sufferin's date back before she wuz born, and that's goin' pretty
fur back. Her father and mother had some difficulty and he wuz took down
with billerous colick, voylent four weeks before Serepta wuz born. And some
think it wuz the hardness between 'em and some think it wuz the gripin' of
the colick when he made his will, anyway he willed Serepta away, boy or
girl whichever it wuz, to his brother up on the Canada line.

So when Serepta wuz born (and born a girl ontirely onbeknown to her) she
wuz took right away from her mother and gin to this brother. Her mother
couldn't help herself, he had the law on his side. But it killed her.
She drooped away and died before the baby wuz a year old. She wuz a
affectionate, tenderhearted woman and her husband wuz overbearin' and
stern always.

But it wuz this last move of hisen that killed her, for it is pretty tough
on a mother to have her baby, a part of her own life, took right out of
her own arms and gin to a stranger. For this uncle of hern wuz a entire
stranger to Serepta, and almost like a stranger to her father, for he
hadn't seen him since he wuz a boy, but knew he hadn't any children and
spozed that he wuz rich and respectable. But the truth wuz he had been
runnin' down every way, had lost his property and his character, wuz
dissipated and mean. But the will wuz made and the law stood. Men are
ashamed now to think that the law wuz ever in voge, but it wuz, and is now
in some of the states, and the poor young mother couldn't help herself. It
has always been the boast of our American law that it takes care of wimmen.
It took care of her. It held her in its strong protectin' grasp so tight
that the only way she could slip out of it wuz to drop into the grave,
which she did in a few months. Then it leggo.

But it kep' holt of Serepta, it bound her tight to her uncle while he run
through with what property she had, while he sunk lower and lower until at
last he needed the very necessaries of life and then he bound her out to
work to a woman who kep' a drinkin' den and the lowest hant of vice.

Twice Serepta run away, bein' virtuous but humbly, but them strong
protectin' arms of the law that had held her mother so tight reached out
and dragged her back agin. Upheld by them her uncle could compel her to
give her service wherever he wanted her to work, and he wuz owin' this
woman and she wanted Serepta's work, so she had to submit.

But the third time she made a effort so voyalent that she got away. A
good woman, who bein' nothin' but a woman couldn't do anything towards
onclinchin' them powerful arms that wuz protectin' her, helped her to slip
through 'em. And Serepta come to Jonesville to live with a sister of that
good woman; changed her name so's it wouldn't be so easy to find her; grew
up to be a nice industrious girl. And when the woman she wuz took by died
she left Serepta quite a handsome property.

And finally she married Lank Burpee, and did considerable well it wuz
spozed. Her property, put with what little he had, made 'em a comfortable
home and they had two pretty children, a boy and a girl. But when the
little girl wuz a baby he took to drinkin', neglected his bizness, got
mixed up with a whiskey ring, whipped Serepta--not so very hard. He went
accordin' to law, and the law of the United States don't approve of a man's
whippin' his wife enough to endanger her life, it sez it don't. He made
every move of hisen lawful and felt that Serepta hadn't ort to complain
and feel hurt. But a good whippin' will make anybody feel hurt, law or no
law. And then he parted with her and got her property and her two little
children. Why, it seemed as if everything under the sun and moon, that
could happen to a woman, had happened to Serepta, painful things and
gauldin'.

Jest before Lank parted with her, she fell on a broken sidewalk: some
think he tripped her up, but it never wuz proved. But anyway Serepta fell
and broke her hip hone; and her husband sued the corporation and got ten
thousand dollars for it. Of course the law give the money to him and she
never got a cent of it. But she wouldn't have made any fuss over that,
knowin' that the law of the United States wuz such. But what made it so
awful mortifyin' to her wuz, that while she wuz layin' there achin' in
splints, he took that very money and used it to court up another woman
with. Gin her presents, jewelry, bunnets, head-dresses, artificial flowers
out of Serepta's own hip money.

And I don't know as anything could be much more gauldin' to a woman than
that--while she lay there groanin' in splints, to have her husband take the
money for her own broken bones and dress up another woman like a doll with
it.

But the law gin it to him, and he wuz only availin' himself of the glorious
liberty of our free Republic, and doin' as he wuz a mind to. And it wuz
spozed that that very hip money wuz what made the match. For before she wuz
fairly out of splints he got a divorce from her and married agin. And by
the help of Serepta's hip money and the Whiskey Ring he got her two little
children away from her.




II

"THEY CAN'T BLAME HER"


And I wonder if there is a woman in the land that can blame Serepta for
gittin' mad and wantin' her rights and wantin' the Whiskey Ring broke up,
when they think how she's been fooled round with by men; willed away, and
whipped, and parted with, and stole from. Why, they can't blame her for
feelin' fairly savage about 'em, as she duz.

For as she sez to me once, when we wuz talkin' it over, how everything had
happened to her. "Yes," sez she, with a axent like bone-set and vinegar,
"and what few things hain't happened to me has happened to my folks."

And sure enough I couldn't dispute her. Trouble and wrongs and sufferin's
seemed to be epidemic in the race of Pester wimmen. Why, one of her aunts
on her father's side, Huldah Pester, married for her first husband,
Eliphelet Perkins. He wuz a minister, rode on a circuit, and he took Huldah
on it too, and she rode round with him on it a good deal of the time. But
she never loved to, she wuz a woman that loved to be still, and kinder
settled down at home.

But she loved Eliphelet so well that she would do anything to please him,
so she rode round with him on that circuit till she wuz perfectly fagged
out.

He wuz a dretful good man to her, but he wuz kinder poor and they had hard
times to git along. But what property they had wuzn't taxed, so that helped
some, and Huldah would make one dollar go a good ways.

No, their property wuzn't taxed till Eliphelet died. Then the supervisor
taxed it the very minute the breath left his body; run his horse, so it wuz
said, so's to be sure to git it onto the tax list, and comply with the law.

You see Eliphelet's salary stopped when his breath did. And I spoze the
law thought, seein' she wuz havin' trouble, she might jest as well have a
little more; so it taxed all the property it never had taxed a cent for
before.

But she had this to console her that the law didn't forgit her in her
widowhood. No; the law is quite thoughtful of wimmen by spells. It sez it
protects wimmen. And I spoze that in some mysterious way, too deep for
wimmen to understand, it wuz protectin' her now.

Well, she suffered along and finally married agin. I wondered why she did.
But she wuz such a quiet, home-lovin' woman that it wuz spozed she wanted
to settle down and be kinder still and sot. But of all the bad luck she
had. She married on short acquaintance, and he proved to be a perfect
wanderer. He couldn't keep still, it wuz spozed to be a mark.

He moved Huldah thirteen times in two years, and at last he took her into
a cart, a sort of covered wagon, and traveled right through the western
states with her. He wanted to see the country and loved to live in the
wagon, it wuz his make. And, of course, the law give him control of her
body, and she had to go where he moved it, or else part with him. And
I spoze the law thought it wuz guardin' and nourishin' her when it wuz
joltin' her over them prairies and mountains and abysses. But it jest kep'
her shook up the hull of the time.

It wuz the regular Pester luck.

And then another of her aunts, Drusilly Pester, married a industrious,
hard-workin' man, one that never drinked, wuz sound on the doctrines, and
give good measure to his customers, he wuz a groceryman. And a master hand
for wantin' to foller the laws of his country as tight as laws could be
follered. And so knowin' that the law approved of moderate correction for
wimmen, and that "a man might whip his wife, but not enough to endanger her
life"; he bein' such a master hand for wantin' to do everything faithful
and do his very best for his customers, it wuz spozed he wanted to do the
best for the law, and so when he got to whippin' Drusilly, he would whip
her too severe, he would be too faithful to it.

You see what made him whip her at all wuz she wuz cross to him. They had
nine little children, she thought two or three children would be about all
one woman could bring up well by hand, when that hand wuz so stiff and sore
with hard work.

But he had read some scareful talk from high quarters about Race Suicide.
Some men do git real wrought up about it and want everybody to have all the
children they can, jest as fast as they can, though wimmen don't all feel
so.

Aunt Hetty Sidman said, "If men had to born 'em and nuss 'em themselves,
she didn't spoze they would be so enthusiastick about it after they had
had a few, 'specially if they done their own housework themselves," and
Aunt Hetty said that some of the men who wuz exhortin' wimmen to have big
families, had better spend some of their strength and wind in tryin' to
make this world a safer place for children to be born into.

She said they'd be better off in Nonentity than here in this world with
saloons on every corner, and war-dogs howlin' at 'em.

I don't know exactly what she meant by Nonentity, but guess she meant the
world we all stay in, before we are born into this one.

Aunt Hetty has lost five boys, two by battle and three by licensed saloons,
that makes her talk real bitter, but to resoom. I told Josiah that men
needn't worry about Race Suicide, for you might as well try to stop a hen
from makin' a nest, as to stop wimmen from wantin' a baby to love and hold
on her heart. But sez I, "Folks ort to be moderate and mejum in babies as
well as in everything else."

But Drusilly's husband wanted twelve boys he said, to be law-abidin'
citizens as their Pa wuz, and a protection to the Govermunt, and to be
ready to man the new warships, if a war broke out. But her babies wuz
real pretty and cunning, and she wuz so weak-minded she couldn't enjoy
the thought that if our male statesmen got to scrappin' with some other
nation's male law-makers and made another war, of havin' her grown-up
babies face the cannons. I spoze it wuz when she wuz so awful tired she
felt so.

You see she had to do every mite of her housework, and milk cows, and make
butter and cheese, and cook and wash and scour, and take all the care of
the children day and night in sickness and health, and make their clothes
and keep 'em clean. And when there wuz so many of 'em and she enjoyin' real
poor health, I spoze she sometimes thought more of her own achin' back than
she did of the good of the Govermunt--and she would git kinder discouraged
sometimes and be cross to him. And knowin' his own motives wuz so high and
loyal, he felt that he ort to whip her, so he did.

And what shows that Drusilly wuzn't so bad after all and did have her good
streaks and a deep reverence for the law is, that she stood his whippin's
first-rate, and never whipped him. Now she wuz fur bigger than he wuz,
weighed eighty pounds the most, and might have whipped him if the law had
been such. But they wuz both law-abidin' and wanted to keep every preamble,
so she stood it to be whipped, and never once whipped him in all the
seventeen years they lived together. She died when her twelfth child wuz
born. There wuz jest ten months difference between that and the one next
older. And they said she often spoke out in her last sickness, and said,
"Thank fortune, I've always kep' the law!" And they said the same thought
wuz a great comfort to him in his last moments. He died about a year after
she did, leavin' his second wife with twins and a good property.

Then there wuz Abagail Pester. She married a sort of a high-headed man,
though one that paid his debts, wuz truthful, good lookin', and played well
on the fiddle. Why, it seemed as if he had almost every qualification for
makin' a woman happy, only he had this one little eccentricity, he would
lock up Abagail's clothes every time he got mad at her.

Of course the law give her clothes to him, and knowin' that it wuz the
law in the state where they lived, she wouldn't have complained only when
they had company. But it wuz mortifyin', nobody could dispute it, to have
company come and have nothin' to put on. Several times she had to withdraw
into the woodhouse, and stay most all day there shiverin', and under the
suller stairs and round in clothes presses. But he boasted in prayer
meetin's and on boxes before grocery stores that he wuz a law-abidin'
citizen, and he wuz. Eben Flanders wouldn't lie for anybody.

But I'll bet Abagail Flanders beat our old revolutionary four-mothers in
thinkin' out new laws, when she lay round under stairs and behind barrels
in her night-gown. When a man hides his wife's stockin's and petticoats
it is governin' without the consent of the governed. If you don't believe
it you'd ort to peeked round them barrels and seen Abagail's eyes, they
had hull reams of by-laws in 'em and preambles, and Declarations of
Independence, so I've been told. But it beat everything I ever hearn on,
the lawful sufferin's of them wimmen. For there wuzn't nothin' illegal
about one single trouble of theirn. They suffered accordin' to law, every
one on 'em. But it wuz tuff for 'em, very tuff. And their bein' so dretful
humbly wuz another drawback to 'em, though that too wuz perfectly lawful,
as everybody knows.

And Serepta looked as bad agin as she would otherwise on account of her
teeth. It wuz after Lank had begun to git after this other woman, and wuz
indifferent to his wife's looks that Serepta had a new set of teeth on her
upper jaw. And they sot out and made her look so bad it fairly made her
ache to look at herself in the glass. And they hurt her gooms too, and she
carried 'em back to the dentist and wanted him to make her another set, but
he acted mean and wouldn't take 'em back, and sued Lank for the pay. And
they had a law-suit. And the law bein' such that a woman can't testify in
court, in any matter that is of mutual interest to husband and wife, and
Lank wantin' to act mean, said that they wuz good sound teeth.

And there Serepta sot right in front of 'em with her gooms achin' and her
face all swelled out, and lookin' like furiation, and couldn't say a word.
But she had to give in to the law. And ruther than go toothless she wears
'em to this day, and I believe it is the raspin' of them teeth aginst her
gooms and her discouraged, mad feelin's every time she looks in the glass
that helps embitter her towards men, and the laws men have made, so's a
woman can't have control of her own teeth and her own bones.

Serepta went home about 5 P.M., I promisin' sacred to do her errents for
her.

And I gin a deep, happy sithe after I shot the door behind her, and I sez
to Josiah I do hope that's the very last errent we will have to carry to
Washington, D.C., for the Jonesvillians.

"Yes," says he, "an' I guess I will get a fresh pail of water and hang on
the tea kettle for you."

"And," I says, "it's pretty early for supper, but I'll start it, for I do
feel kinder gone to the stomach. Sympathy is real exhaustin'. Sometimes I
think it tires me more'n hard work. And Heaven knows I sympathized with
Serepta. I felt for her full as much as if she was one of the relations on
_his_ side."

But if you'll believe it, I had hardly got the words out of my mouth and
Josiah had jest laid holt of the water pail, when in comes Philander
Dagget, the President of the Jonesville Creation Searchin' Society and, of
course, he had a job for us to do on our tower. This Society was started
by the leadin' men of Jonesville, for the purpose of searchin' out and
criticizin' the affairs of the world, an' so far as possible advisin' and
correctin' the meanderin's an' wrong-doin's of the universe.

This Society, which we call the C.S.S. for short, has been ruther quiet for
years. But sence woman's suffrage has got to be such a prominent question,
they bein' so bitterly opposed to it, have reorganized and meet every once
in a while, to sneer at the suffragettes and poke fun at 'em and show in
every way they can their hitter antipathy to the cause.

Philander told me if I see anything new and strikin' in the way of Society
badges and regalia, to let him know about it, for he said the C.S.S. was
goin' to take a decided stand and show their colors. They wuz goin' to
help protect his women endangered sect, an' he wanted sunthin' showy and
suggestive.

I thought of a number of badges and mottoes that I felt would be suitable
for this Society, but dassent tell 'em to him, for his idees and mine on
this subject are as fur apart as the two poles. He talked awful bitter to
me once about it, and I sez to him:

"Philander, the world is full of good men, and there are also bad men in
the world, and, sez I, did you ever in your born days see a bad man that
wuzn't opposed to Woman's Suffrage? All the men who trade in, and profit
by, the weakness and sin of men and women, they every one of 'em, to
a man, fight agin it. And would they do this if they didn't think that
their vile trades would suffer if women had the right to vote? It is the
great-hearted, generous, noble man who wants women to become a real citizen
with himself--which she is not now--she is only a citizen just enough to be
taxed equally with man, or more exhorbitantly, and be punished and executed
by the law she has no hand in makin'."

Philander sed, "I have always found it don't pay to talk with women on
matters they don't understand."

An' he got up and started for the door, an' Josiah sed, "No, it don't pay,
not a cent; I've always said so."

But I told Philander I'd let him know if I see anything appropriate to the
C.S.S. Holdin' back with a almost Herculaneum effort the mottoes and
badges that run through my mind as bein' appropriate to their society;
knowin' it would make him so mad if I told him of 'em--he never would
neighbor with us again. And in three days' time we sot sail. We got to
the depo about an hour too early, but I wuz glad we wuz on time, for it
would have worked Josiah up dretfully ef we hadn't been, for he had spent
most of the latter part of the night in gittin' up and walkin' out to the
clock seein' if it wuz train time. Jest before we started, who should come
runnin' down to the depo but Sam Nugent wantin' to send a errent by me to
Washington. He wunk me out to one side of the waitin' room, and ast "if I'd
try to git him a license to steal horses."

It kinder runs in the blood of the Nugents to love to steal, and he owned
up it did, but he said he wanted the profit of it. But I told him I
wouldn't do any sech thing, an' I looked at him in such a witherin' way
that I should most probable withered him, only he is blind in one side, and
I wuz on the blind side, but he argued with me, and said that it wuz no
worse than to give licenses for other kinds of meanness.

He said they give licenses now to steal--steal folkses senses away, and
then they could steal everything else, and murder and tear round into every
kind of wickedness. But he didn't ask that. He wanted things done fair and
square: he jest wanted to steal horses. He wuz goin' West, and he thought
he could do a good bizness, and lay up somethin'. If he had a license he
shouldn't be afraid of bein' shet up or shot.

But I refused the job with scorn; and jest as I wuz refusin', the cars
snorted, and I wuz glad they did. They seemed to express in that wild snort
something of the indignation I felt.

The idee!




III

"POLLY'S EYES CROWED TENDER"


Lorinda wuz dretful glad to see us and so wuz her husband and Polly. But
the Reunion had to be put off on account of a spell her husband wuz havin'.
Lorinda said she could not face such a big company as she'd invited while
Hiram wuz havin' a spell, and I agreed with her.

Sez I, "Never, never, would I have invited company whilst Josiah wuz
sufferin' with one of his cricks."

Men hain't patient under pain, and outsiders hain't no bizness to hear
things they say and tell on 'em. So Polly had to write to the relations
puttin' off the Reunion for one week. But Lorinda kep' on cookin' fruit
cake and such that would keep, she had plenty of help, but loved to do her
company cookin' herself. And seein' the Reunion wuz postponed and Lorinda
had time on her hands, I proposed she should go with me to the big out-door
meetin' of the Suffragists, which wuz held in a nigh-by city.

"Good land!" sez she, "nothin' would tempt me to patronize anything so
brazen and onwomanly as a out-door meetin' of wimmen, and so onhealthy and
immodest." I see she looked reproachfully at Polly as she said it. Polly
wuz arrangin' some posies in a vase, and looked as sweet as the posies did,
but considerable firm too, and I see from Lorinda's looks that Polly wuz
one who had to leave father and mother for principle's sake.

But I sez, "You're cookin' this minute, Lorinda, for a out-door meetin'"
(she wuz makin' angel cake). "And why is this meetin' any more onwomanly or
immodest than the camp-meetin' where you wuz converted, and baptized the
next Sunday in the creek?"

"Oh, them wuz religious meetin's," sez she.

"Well," sez I, "mebby these wimmen think their meetin' is religious. You
know the Bible sez, 'Faith and works should go together,' and some of the
leaders of this movement have showed by their works as religious a sperit
and wielded aginst injustice to young workin' wimmen as powerful a weepon
as that axe of the 'Postles the Bible tells about. And you said you went
every day to the Hudson-Fulton doin's and hearn every out-door lecture; you
writ me that there wuz probable a million wimmen attendin' them out-door
meetin's, and that wuz curosity and pleasure huntin' that took them, and
this is a meetin' of justice and right."

"Oh, shaw!" sez Lorinda agin, with her eye on Polly. "Wimmen have all the
rights they want or need." Lorinda's husband bein' rich and lettin' her
have her way she is real foot loose, and don't feel the need of any more
rights for herself, but I told her then and there some of the wrongs and
sufferin's of Serepta Pester, and bein' good-hearted (but obstinate and
bigoted) she gin in that the errents wuz hefty, and that Serepta wuz to be
pitied, but she insisted that wimmen's votin' wouldn't help matters.

But Euphrasia Pottle, a poor relation from Troy, spoke up. "After my
husband died one of my girls went into a factory and gits about half what
the men git for the same work, and my oldest girl who teaches in the
public school don't git half as much for the same work as men do, and her
school rooms are dark, stuffy, onhealthy, and crowded so the children are
half-choked for air, and the light so poor they're havin' their eyesight
spilte for life, and new school books not needed at all, are demanded
constantly, so some-one can make money."

"Yes," sez I, "do you spoze, Lorinda, if intelligent mothers helped control
such things they would let their children be made sick and blind and the
money that should be used for food for poor hungry children be squandered
on _on_-necessary books they are too faint with hunger to study."

"But wimmen's votin' wouldn't help in such things," sez Lorinda, as she
stirred her angel cake vigorously.

But Euphrasia sez, "My niece, Ellen, teaches in a state where wimmen vote
and she gits the same wages men git for the same work, and her school rooms
are bright and pleasant and sanitary, and the pupils, of course, are well
and happy. And if you don't think wimmen can help in such public matters
just go to Seattle and see how quick a bad man wuz yanked out of his public
office and a good man put in his place, mostly by wimmen's efforts and
votes."

"Yes," sez I, "it is a proved fact that wimmen's votes do help in these
matters. And do you think, Lorinda, that if educated, motherly, thoughtful
wimmen helped make the laws so many little children would be allowed to
toil in factories and mines, their tender shoulders bearin' the burden of
constant labor that wears out the iron muscles of men?"

Polly's eyes growed tender and wistful, and her little white hands
lingered over her posies, and I knowed the hard lot of the poor, the
wrongs of wimmen and children, the woes of humanity, wuz pressin' down
on her generous young heart. And I could see in her sweet face the brave
determination to do and to dare, to try to help ondo the wrongs, and try to
lift the burdens from weak and achin' shoulders. But Lorinda kep' on with
the same old moth-eaten argument so broke down and feeble it ort to be
allowed to die in peace.

"Woman's suffrage would make women neglect their homes and housework and
let their children run loose into ruin."

I knowed she said it partly on Polly's account, but I sez in surprise,
"Why, Lorinda, it must be you hain't read up on the subject or you would
know wherever wimmen has voted they have looked out first of all for the
children's welfare. They have raised the age of consent, have closed
saloons and other places of licensed evil, and in every way it has been
their first care to help 'em to safer and more moral surroundin's, for who
has the interest of children more at heart than the mothers who bore them,
children who are the light of their eyes and the hope of the future."

Lorinda admitted that the state of the children in the homes of the poor
and ignorant wuz pitiful. "But," sez she, "the Bible sez 'ye shall always
have the poor with you,' and I spoze we always shall, with all their
sufferin's and wants. But," sez she, "in well-to-do homes the children are
safe and well off, and don't need any help from woman legislation."

"Why, Lorinda," sez I, "did you ever think on't how such mothers may
watch over and be the end of the law to their children with the father's
full consent during infancy when they're wrastlin' with teethin',
whoopin'-cough, mumps, etc., can be queen of the nursery, dispensor of
pure air, sunshine, sanitary, and safe surroundin's in every way, and then
in a few years see 'em go from her into dark, overcrowded, unsanitary,
carelessly guarded places, to spend the precious hours when they are the
most receptive to influence and pass man-made pitfalls on their way to and
fro, must stand helpless until in too many cases the innocent healthy child
that went from her care returns to her half-blind, a physical and moral
wreck. The mother who went down to death's door for 'em, and had most to do
in mouldin' their destiny during infancy should have at least equal rights
with the father in controllin' their surroundin's during their entire
youth, and to do this she must have equal legal power or her best efforts
are wasted. That this is just and right is as plain to me as the nose on my
face and folks will see it bom-bye and wonder they didn't before.

"And wimmen who suffer most by the lack on't, will be most interested in
openin' schools to teach the fine art of domestic service, teachin' young
girls how to keep healthy comfortable homes and fit themselves to be
capable wives and mothers. I don't say or expect that wimmen's votin' will
make black white, or wash all the stains from the legislative body at once,
but I say that jest the effort to git wimmen's suffrage has opened hundreds
of bolted doors and full suffrage will open hundreds more. And I'm goin' to
that woman's suffrage meetin' if I walk afoot."

But here Josiah spoke up, I thought he wuz asleep, he wuz layin' on the
lounge with a paper over his face. But truly the word, "Woman's Suffrage,"
rousts him up as quick as a mouse duz a drowsy cat, so, sez he, "I can't
let you go, Samantha, into any such dangerous and onwomanly affair."

"Let?" sez I in a dry voice; "that's a queer word from one old pardner to
another."

"I'm responsible for your safety, Samantha, and if anybody goes to that
dangerous and onseemly meetin' I will. Mebby Polly would like to go with
me." As stated, Polly is as pretty as a pink posy, and no matter how old
a man is, nor how interestin' and noble his pardner is, he needs girl
blinders, yes, he needs 'em from the cradle to the grave. But few, indeed,
are the female pardners who can git him to wear 'em.

He added, "You know I represent you legally, Samantha; what I do is jest
the same as though you did it."

Sez I, "Mebby that is law, but whether it is gospel is another question.
But if you represent me, Josiah, you will have to carry out my plans; I
writ to Diantha Smith Trimble that if I went to the city I'd take care of
Aunt Susan a night or two, and rest her a spell; you know Diantha is a
widder and too poor to hire a nurse. But seein' you represent me you can
set up with her Ma a night or two; she's bed-rid and you'll have to lift
her round some, and give her her medicine and take care of Diantha's twins,
and let her git a good sleep."

"Well, as it were--Samantha--you know--men hain't expected to represent
wimmen in everything, it is mostly votin' and tendin' big meetin's and
such."

"Oh, I see," sez I; "men represent wimmen when they want to, and when they
don't wimmen have got to represent themselves."

"Well, yes, Samantha, sunthin' like that."

He didn't say anything more about representin' me, and Polly said she
wuz goin' to ride in the parade with some other college girls. Lorinda's
linement looked dark and forbiddin' as Polly stated in her gentle, but firm
way this ultimatum. Lorinda hated the idee of Polly's jinin' in what she
called onwomanly and immodest doin's, but I looked beamin'ly at her and
gloried in her principles.

After she went out Lorinda said to me in a complainin' way, "I should
think that a girl that had every comfort and luxury would be contented and
thankful, and be willin' to stay to home and act like a lady."

Sez I, "Nothin' could keep Polly from actin' like a lady, and mebby it is
because she is so well off herself that makes her sorry for other young
girls that have nothin' but poverty and privation."

"Oh, nonsense!" sez Lorinda. But I knowed jest how it wuz. Polly bein'
surrounded by all the good things money could give, and bein' so
tender-hearted her heart ached for other young girls, who had to spend the
springtime of their lives in the hard work of earnin' bread for themselves
and dear ones, and she longed to help 'em to livin' wages, so they
could exist without the wages of sin, and too many on 'em had to choose
between them black wages and starvation. She wanted to help 'em to better
surroundin's and she knowed the best weepon she could put into their hands
to fight the wolves of Want and Temptation, wuz the ballot. Polly hain't a
mite like her Ma, she favors the Smiths more, her grand-ma on her pa's side
wuz a Smith and a woman of brains and principle.

Durin' my conversation with Lorinda, I inquired about Royal Gray, for as
stated, he wuz a great favorite of ourn, and I found out (and I could see
it gaulded her) that when Polly united with the Suffragists he shied off
some, and went to payin' attention to another girl. Whether it wuz to make
Polly jealous and bring her round to his way of thinkin', I didn't know,
but mistrusted, for I could have took my oath that he loved Polly deeply
and truly. To be sure he hadn't confided in me, but there is a language
of the eyes, when the soul speaks through 'em, and as I'd seen him look
at Polly my own soul had hearn and understood that silent language and
translated it, that Polly wuz the light of his eyes, and the one woman in
the world for him. And I couldn't think his heart had changed so sudden.
But knowin' as I did the elastic nature of manly affection, I felt
dubersome.

This other girl, Maud Vincent, always said to her men friends, it wuz
onwomanly to try to vote. She wuz one of the girls who always gloried in
bein' a runnin' vine when there wuz any masculine trees round to lean
on and twine about. One who always jined in with all the idees they
promulgated, from neckties to the tariff, who declared cigar smoke wuz so
agreeable and welcome; it did really make her deathly sick, but she would
choke herself cheerfully and willin'ly if by so chokin' she could gain
manly favor and admiration.

She said she didn't believe in helpin' poor girls, they wuz well enough
off as it wuz, she wuz sure they didn't feel hunger and cold as rich girls
did, their skin wuz thicker and their stomachs different and stronger, and
constant labor didn't harm them, and working girls didn't need recreation
as rich girls did, and woman's suffrage wouldn't help them any; in her
opinion it would harm them, and anyway the poor wuz on-grateful.

She had the usual arguments on the tip of her tongue, for old Miss Vincent,
the aunt she lived with, wuz a ardent She Aunty and very prominent in the
public meetin's the She Auntys have to try to compel the Suffragists not
to have public meetin's. They talk a good deal in public how onwomanly
and immodest it is for wimmen to talk in public. And she wuz one of the
foremost ones in tryin' to git up a school to teach wimmen civics, to prove
that they mustn't ever have anything to do with civics.

Yes, old Miss Vincent wuz a real active, ardent She Aunty, and Maud
Genevieve takes after her. Royal Gray, his handsome attractive personality,
and his millions, had long been the goal of Maud's ambition. And how
ardently did she hail the coolness growing between him and Polly, the
little rift in the lute, and how zealously did she labor to make it larger.

Polly and Royal had had many an argument on the subject, that is, he would
begin by makin' fun of the Suffragists and their militant doin's, which if
he'd thought on't wuz sunthin' like what his old revolutionary forbears
went through for the same reasons, bein' taxed without representation, and
bein' burdened and punished by the law they had no voice in making, only
the Suffragettes are not nearly so severe with their opposers, they haven't
drawed any blood yet. Why, them old Patriots we revere so, would consider
their efforts for freedom exceedingly gentle and tame compared to their own
bloody battles.

And Royal would make light of the efforts of college girls to help workin'
girls, and the encouragement and aid they'd gin 'em when they wuz strikin'
for less death-dealin' hours of labor, and livin' wages, and so forth. I
don't see how such a really noble young man as Royal ever come to argy that
way, but spoze it wuz the dead hand of some rough onreasonable old ancestor
reachin' up out of the shadows of the past and pushin' him on in the wrong
direction.

So when he begun to ridicule what Polly's heart wuz sot on, when she felt
that he wuz fightin' agin right and justice, before they knowed it both
pairs of bright eyes would git to flashin' out angry sparks, and hash words
would be said on both sides. That old long-buried Tory ancestor of hisen
eggin' him on, so I spoze, and Polly's generous sperit rebellin' aginst the
injustice and selfishness, and mebby some warlike ancestor of hern pushin'
her on to say hash things. 'Tennyrate he had grown less attentive to her,
and wuz bestowin' his time and attentions elsewhere.

And when she told him she wuz goin' to ride in the automobile parade of the
suffragists, but really ridin' she felt towards truth and justice to half
the citizens of the U.S., he wuz mad as a wet hen, a male wet hen, and wuz
bound she shouldn't go.

Some men, and mebby it is love that makes 'em feel so (they say it is), and
mebby it is selfishness (though they won't own up to it), but they want
the women they love to belong to them alone, want to rule absolutely over
their hearts, their souls, their bodies, and all their thoughts and aims,
desires, and fancies. They don't really say they want 'em to wear veils,
and be shet in behind lattice-windowed harems, but I believe they would
enjoy it.

They want to be foot loose and heart loose themselves, but always after
Ulysses is tired of world wandering, he wants to come back and open the
barred doors of home with his own private latch-key, and find Penelope
knitting stockings for him with her veil on, waitin' for him.

That sperit is I spoze inherited from the days when our ancestor, the Cave
man, would knock down the woman he fancied, with a club, and carry her off
into his cave and keep her there shet up. But little by little men are
forgettin' their ancestral traits, and men and wimmen are gradually comin'
out of their dark caverns into the sunshine (for women too have inherited
queer traits and disagreeable ones, but that is another story).

Well, as I said, Royal wuz mad and told Polly that he guessed that the day
of the Parade he would take Maud Vincent out in the country in his motor,
to gather May-flowers. Polly told him she hoped they would have a good
time, and then, after he had gone, drivin' his car lickety-split, harem
skarum, owin' to his madness I spoze, Polly went upstairs and cried, for I
hearn her, her room wuz next to ourn.

And I deeply respected her for her principles, for he had asked her first
to go May-flowering with him the day of the Suffrage meeting. But she
refused, havin' in her mind, I spoze, the girls that couldn't hunt flowers,
but had to handle weeds and thistles with bare hands (metaforically) and
wanted to help them and all workin' wimmen to happier and more prosperous
lives.




IV

"STRIVIN' WITH THE EMISSARY"


But I am hitchin' the horse behind the wagon and to resoom backwards. The
Reunion wuz put off a week and the Suffrage Meetin' wuz two days away, so I
told Lorinda I didn't believe I would have a better time to carry Serepta
Pester's errents to Washington, D.C. Josiah said he guessed he would stay
and help wait on Hiram Cagwin, and I approved on't, for Lorinda wuz gittin'
wore out.

And then Josiah made so light of them errents I felt that he would be a
drawback instead of a help, for how could I keep a calm and noble frame of
mind befittin' them lofty errents, and how could I carry 'em stiddy with a
pardner by my side pokin' fun at 'em, and at me for carryin' 'em, jarrin'
my sperit with his scorfin' and onbelievin' talk?

And as I sot off alone in the trolley I thought of how they must have felt
in old times a-carryin' the Urim and Thumim. And though I hadn't no idee
what them wuz, yet I always felt that the carriers of 'em must have felt
solemn and high-strung. Yes, my feelin's wuz such as I felt of the heft
and importance of them errents not alone to Serepta Pester, but to the
hull race of wimmen that it kep' my mental head rained up so high that I
couldn't half see and enjoy the sight of the most beautiful city in the
world, and still I spoze its grandeur and glory sort o' filtered down
through my conscientiousness, as cloth grows white under the sun's rays
onbeknown to it.

Anon I left the trolley and walked some ways afoot. It wuz a lovely day,
the sun shone down in golden splendor upon the splendor beneath it. Broad,
beautiful clean streets, little fresh green parks, everywhere you could
turn about, and big ones full of flowers and fountains, and trees and
statutes.

And anon or oftener I passed noble big stun buildings, where everything is
made for the nation's good and profit. Money and fish and wisdom and all
sorts of patented things and garden seeds and tariffs and resolutions and
treaties and laws of every shape and size, good ones and queer ones and
reputations and rates and rebates, etc., etc. But it would devour too much
time to even name over all that is made and onmade there, even if I knowed
by name the innumerable things that are flowin' constant out of that great
reservoir of the Nation, with its vast crowd of law-makers settin' on the
lid, regulatin' its flow and spreadin' it abroad over the country, thick
and thin.

But on I went past the Capitol, the handsomest buildin' on the Globe,
standin' in its own Eden of beauty. By the Public Library as long as from
our house to Grout Hozleton's, and I guess longer, and every foot on't more
beautifler ornamented than tongue can tell. But I didn't dally tryin' to
pace off the size on't, though it wuz enormous, for the thought of what I
wuz carryin' bore me on almost regardless of my matchless surroundin's and
the twinges of rumatiz.

And anon I arrived at the White House, where my hopes and the hopes of
my sect and Serepta Pester wuz sot. I will pass over my efforts to git
into the Presence, merely sayin' that they were arjous and extreme, and I
wouldn't probably have got in at all had not the Presence appeared with a
hat on jest goin' out for a walk, and see me as I wuz strivin' with the
emissary for entrance. I spoze my noble mean, made more noble fur by the
magnitude of what I wuz carryin', impressed him, for suffice it to say
inside of five minutes the Presence wuz back in his augience room, and I
wuz layin' out them errents of Serepta's in front of him.

He wuz very hefty, a good-lookin' smilin' man, a politer demeanored
gentlemanly appearner man I don't want to see. But his linement which had
looked so pleasant and cheerful growed gloomy and deprested as I spread
them errents before him and sez in conclusion:

"Serepta Pester sent these errents to you, she wanted intemperance done
away with, the Whiskey Ring broke up and destroyed, she wanted you to
have nothin' stronger than root beer when you had company to dinner, she
offerin' to send you some burdock and dandeline roots and some emptins to
start it with, and she wanted her rights, and wanted 'em all by week after
next without fail."

He sithed hard, and I never see a linement fall furder than hisen fell,
and kep' a-fallin'. I pitied him, I see it wuz a hard stent for him to do
it in the time she had sot, and he so fleshy too. But knowin' how much
wuz at the stake, and how the fate of Serepta and wimmen wuz tremblin' in
the balances, I spread them errents out before him. And bein' truthful
and above board, I told him that Serepta wuz middlin' disagreeable and
very humbly, but she needed her rights jest as much as though she wuz a
wax-doll. And I went on and told him how she and her relations had suffered
from want of rights, and how dretfully she had suffered from the Ring till
I declare talkin' about them little children of hern, and her agony, I got
about as fierce actin' as Serepta herself, and entirely onbeknown to myself
I talked powerful on intemperance and Rings, and such.

When I got down agin onto my feet I see he had a still more worried and
anxious look on his good-natured face, and he sez: "The laws of the United
States are such that I can't do them errands, I can't interfere."

"Then," sez I, "why don't you make the United States do right?"

He said sunthin' about the might of the majority, and the powerful
corporations and rings, and that sot me off agin. And I talked very
powerful and allegored about allowin' a ring to be put round the United
States and let a lot of whiskey dealers and corporations lead her round,
a pitiful sight for men and angels. Sez I, "How duz it look before the
nations to see Columbia led round half-tipsy by a Ring?"

He seemed to think it looked bad, I knew by his looks.

Sez I, "Intemperance is bad for Serepta and bad for the Nation."

He murmured sunthin' about the revenue the liquor trade brought the
Govermunt.

But I sez, "Every penny is money right out of the people's pockets; every
dollar the people pay into the liquor traffic that gives a few cents into
the treasury, is costin' the people ten times that dollar in the loss
intemperance entails, loss of labor, by the inability of drunken men to do
anything but wobble and stagger, loss of wealth by the enormous losses of
property and taxation, of alms-houses, mad-houses, jails, police forces,
paupers' coffins, and the diggin' of thousands and thousands of graves
that are filled yearly by them that reel into 'em." Sez I, "Wouldn't it
be better for the people to pay that dollar in the first place into the
treasury than to let it filter through the dram-seller's hands, a few cents
of it fallin' into the national purse at last, putrid and heavy with all
these losses and curses and crimes and shames and despairs and agonies?"

He seemed to think it would, I see by the looks of his linement he did.
Every honorable man feels so in his heart, and yet they let the Liquor Ring
control 'em and lead 'em round. "It is queer, queer as a dog." Sez I, "The
intellectual and moral power of the United States are rolled up and thrust
into that Whiskey Ring and bein' drove by the whiskey dealers jest where
they want to drive 'em." Sez I, "It controls New York village and nobody
denies it, and the piety and philanthropy and culture and philosophy of
that village has to be drawed along by that Ring." And sez I, in low but
startlin' tones of principle:

"Where, where is it a-drawin' 'em to? Where is it drawin' the hull nation
to? Is it drawin' 'em down into a slavery ten times more abject and
soul-destroyin' than African slavery ever wuz? Tell me," sez I firmly,
"tell me!"

He did not try to frame a reply, he could not find a frame. He knowed it
wuz a conundrum boundless as truth and God's justice, and as solemnly deep
in its sure consequences of evil as eternity, and as sure to come as that
is.

Oh, how solemn he looked, and how sorry I felt for him, for I knowed worse
wuz to come, I knowed the sharpest arrow Serepta Pester had sent wuz yet
to pierce his sperit. But I sort o' blunted the edge on't what I could
conscientiously. Sez I, "I think myself Serepta is a little onreasonable, I
myself am willin' to wait three or four weeks. But she's suffered dretful
from intemperance from the Rings and from the want of rights, and her
sufferin's have made her more voylent in her demands and impatienter," and
then I fairly groaned as I did the rest of the errent, and let the sharpest
arrow fly from the bo.

"Serepta told me to tell you if you didn't do these errents you should not
be President next year."

He trembled like a popple leaf, and I felt that Serepta wuz threatenin' him
too hard. Sez he, "I do not wish to be President again, I shall refuse to
be nominated. At the same time I _do_ wish to be President and shall
work hard for the nomination if you can understand the paradox."

"Yes," sez I, "I understand them paradoxes. I've lived with 'em as you may
say, all through my married life."

A clock struck in the next room and I knowed time wuz passin' swift.

Sez the President, "I would be glad to do Serepta's errents, I think she is
justified in askin' for her rights, and to have the Ring destroyed, but I
am not the one to do them."

Sez I, "Who is the man or men?"

He looked all round the room and up and down as if in hopes he could see
someone layin' round on the floor, or danglin' from the ceilin', that would
take the responsibility offen him, and in the very nick of time the door
opened after a quick rap, and the President jumped up with a relieved look
on his linement, and sez:

"Here is the very man to do the errents." And he hastened to introduce me
to the Senator who entered. And then he bid me a hasty adoo, but cordial
and polite, and withdrew himself.




V

"HE WUZ DRETFUL POLITE"


I felt glad to have this Senator do Serepta's errents, but I didn't like
his looks. My land! talk about Serepta Pester bein' disagreeable, he wuz as
disagreeable as she any day. He wuz kinder tall and looked out of his eyes
and wore a vest. He wuz some bald-headed, and wore a large smile all the
while, it looked like a boughten one that didn't fit him, but I won't say
it wuz. I presoom he'll be known by this description. But his baldness
didn't look to me like Josiah Allen's baldness, and he didn't have the
noble linement of the President, no indeed. He wuz dretful polite, good
land! politeness is no name for it, but I don't like to see anybody too
good. He drawed a chair up for me and himself and asked me:

If he should have the inexpressible honor and delightful joy of aiding me
in any way, if so to command him to do it or words to that effect. I can't
put down his second-hand smiles and genteel looks and don't want to if I
could.

But tacklin' hard jobs as I always tackle 'em, I sot down calm in front
of him with my umbrell on my lap and told him all of Serepta's errents,
and how I had brought 'em from Jonesville on my tower. I told over all her
sufferin's and wrongs from the Rings and from not havin' her rights, and
all her sister's Azuba Clapsaddle's, and her Aunt Cassandra Keeler's, and
Hulda and Drusilly's and Abagail Flanderses injustices and sufferin's. I
did her errents as honorable as I'd love to have one done for me, I told
him all the petickulars, and as I finished I said firmly:

"Now can you do Serepta Pesterses errents and will you?"

He leaned forward with that disagreeable boughten smile of hisen and took
up one corner of my mantilly, it wuz cut tab fashion, and he took up the
tab and said in a low insinuatin' voice, lookin' clost at the edge of the
tab:

"Am I mistaken, or is this beautiful creation pipein' or can it be
Kensington tattin'?"

I drawed the tab back coldly and never dained a reply; agin he sez, in
a tone of amiable anxiety, "Have I not heard a rumor that bangs are
going out of style? I see you do not wear your lovely hair bang-like or
a-pompadouris? Ah, women are lovely creatures, lovely beings, every one of
'em." And he sithed, "You are very beautiful," and he sithed agin, a sort
of a deceitful lovesick sithe. I sot demute as the Spinks, and a chippin'
bird tappin' his wing aginst her stuny breast would move it jest as much as
he moved me by his talk or his sithes. But he kep' on, puttin' on a sort of
a sad injured look as if my coldness wuz ondoin' of him.

"My dear madam, it is my misfortune that the topics I introduce, however
carefully selected by me, do not seem to be congenial to you. Have you
a leanin' toward Natural history, madam? Have you ever studied into the
habits and traits of our American Wad?"

"What?" sez I. For truly a woman's curosity, however parlyzed by just
indignation, can stand only just so much strain. "The what?"

"The wad. The animal from which is obtained the valuable fur that tailors
make so much use of."

Sez I, "Do you mean waddin' eight cents a sheet?"

"Eight cents a pelt--yes, the skins are plentiful and cheap, owing to the
hardy habits of the animal."

Sez I, "Cease instantly. I will hear no more."

Truly, I had heard much of the flattery and little talk statesmen will use
to wimmen, and I'd hearn of their lies, etc.; but truly I felt that the
half had not been told. And then I thought out-loud and sez:

"I've hearn how laws of eternal right and justice are sot one side in
Washington, D.C., as bein' too triflin' to attend to, while the Legislators
pondered over and passed laws regardin' hen's eggs and bird's nests. But
this is goin' too fur--too fur. But," sez I firmly, "I shall do Serepta's
errents, and do 'em to the best of my ability, and you can't draw off my
attention from her wrongs and sufferin's by talkin' about wads."

"I would love to obleege Serepta," sez he, "because she belongs to such a
lovely sect. Wimmen are the loveliest, most angelic creatures that ever
walked the earth; they are perfect, flawless, like snow and roses."

Sez I firmly, "They hain't no such thing; they are disagreeable creeters a
good deal of the time. They hain't no better than men, but they ort to have
their rights all the same. Now Serepta is disagreeable and kinder fierce
actin', and jest as humbly as they make wimmen, but that hain't no sign she
ort to be imposed upon; Josiah sez she hadn't ort to have rights she is so
humbly, but I don't feel so."

"Who is Josiah?" sez he.

Sez I, "My husband."

"Ah, your husband! Yes, wimmen should have husbands instead of rights. They
do not need rights; they need freedom from all cares and sufferin'. Sweet
lovely beings! let them have husbands to lift them above all earthly cares
and trials! Oh! angels of our homes!" sez he, liftin' his eyes to the
heavens and kinder shettin' 'em, some as if he wuz goin' into a spazzum.
"Fly around, ye angels, in your native hants; mingle not with rings and
vile laws, flee away, flee above them!"

And he kinder waved his hand back and forth in a floatin' fashion up in the
air, as if it wuz a woman flyin' up there smooth and serene. It would have
impressed some folks dretful, but it didn't me. I sez reasonably:

"Serepta would have been glad to flew above 'em, but the Ring and the vile
laws lay holt of her onbeknown to her and dragged her down. And there
she is all bruised and broken-hearted by 'em. She didn't meddle with the
political Ring, but the Ring meddled with her. How can she fly when the
weight of this infamous traffic is holdin' her down?"

"Ahem!" sez he. "Ahem, as it were. As I was saying, my dear madam, these
angelic angels of our homes are too ethereal, too dainty to mingle with
rude crowds. We political men would fain keep them as they are now; we are
willing to stand the rude buffetin' of--of--voting, in order to guard these
sweet delicate creatures from any hardships. Sweet tender beings, we would
fain guard thee--ah, yes, ah, yes."

Sez I, "Cease instantly, or my sickness will increase, for such talk is
like thoroughwort or lobelia to my moral and mental stomach. You know and I
know that these angelic tender bein's, half-clothed, fill our streets on
icy midnights, huntin' up drunken husbands and fathers and sons. They are
driven to death and to moral ruin by the miserable want liquor drinkin'
entails. They are starved, they are froze, they are beaten, they are
made childless and hopeless by drunken husbands killin' their own flesh
and blood. They go down into the cold waves and are drowned by drunken
captains; they are cast from railways into death by drunken engineers; they
go up on the scaffold and die for crimes committed by the direct aid of
this agent of Hell.

"Wimmen had ruther be flyin' round than to do all this, but they can't.
If men really believed all they say about wimmen, and I think some on 'em
do in a dreamy sentimental way--If wimmen are angels, give 'em the rights
of angels. Who ever hearn of a angel foldin' up her wings and goin' to a
poor-house or jail through the fault of somebody else? Who ever hearn of a
angel bein' dragged off to police court for fightin' to defend her children
and herself from a drunken husband that had broke her wings and blacked
her eyes, got the angel into the fight and then she got throwed into the
streets and imprisoned by it? Who ever hearn of a angel havin' to take in
washin' to support a drunken son or father or husband? Who ever hearn of
a angel goin' out as wet-nurse to git money to pay taxes on her home to
a Govermunt that in theory idolizes her, and practically despises her,
and uses that money in ways abominable to that angel. If you want to be
consistent, if you're bound to make angels of wimmen, you ort to furnish a
free safe place for 'em to soar in. You ort to keep the angels from bein'
tormented and bruised and killed, etc."

"Ahem," sez he, "as it were, ahem."

But I kep' right on, for I begun to feel noble and by the side of myself:

"This talk about wimmen bein' outside and above all participation in the
laws of her country, is jest as pretty as anything I ever hearn, and jest
as simple. Why, you might jest as well throw a lot of snowflakes into the
street, and say, 'Some of 'em are female flakes and mustn't be trompled
on.' The great march of life tromples on 'em all alike; they fall from one
common sky, and are trodden down into one common ground.

"Men and wimmen are made with divine impulses and desires, and human
needs and weaknesses, needin' the same heavenly light, and the same human
aids and helps. The law should mete out to them the same rewards and
punishments.

"Serepta sez you call wimmen angels, and you don't give 'em the rights of
the lowest beasts that crawl on the earth. And Serepta told me to tell you
that she didn't ask the rights of a angel; she would be perfectly contented
and proud, if you would give her the rights of a dog--the assured political
rights of a yeller dog.' She said yeller and I'm bound on doin' her 'errent
jest as she wanted it done, word for word.

"A dog, Serepta sez, don't have to be hung if it breaks the laws it is not
allowed any hand in making; a dog don't have to pay taxes on its bone to a
Govermunt that withholds every right of citizenship from it; a dog hain't
called undogly if it is industrious and hunts quietly round for its bone
to the best of its ability, and tries to git its share of the crumbs that
falls from that table bills are laid on.

"A dog hain't preached to about its duty to keep home sweet and sacred, and
then see that home turned into a place of danger and torment under laws
that these very preachers have made legal and respectable. A dog don't have
to see its property taxed to advance laws it believes ruinous, and that
breaks its own heart and the heart of other dear dogs. A dog don't have
to listen to soul-sickening speeches from them that deny it freedom and
justice, about its bein' a damask rose and a seraph, when it knows it
hain't; it knows, if it knows anything, that it is jest a plain dog.

"You see Serepta has been embittered by the trials that politics, corrupt
legislation have brought right onto her. She didn't want nothin' to do with
'em, but they come onto her onexpected and onbeknown, and she feels that
she must do everything she can to alter matters. She wants to help make the
laws that have such a overpowerin' influence over her. She believes they
can't be much worse than they are now, and may be a little better."

"Ah," interrupted the Senator, "if Serepta wishes to change political
affairs, let her influence her children, her boys, and they will carry her
benign and noble influence forward into the centuries."

"But the law took her boy, her little boy and girl, away from her. Through
the influence of the Whiskey Ring, of which her husband wuz a shinin'
member, he got possession of her boy. And so the law has made it perfectly
impossible for her to mould it indirectly through him, what Serepta duz she
must do herself."

"Ah! my dear woman. A sad thing for Serepta; I trust _you_ have no
grievance of this kind, I trust that your estimable husband is, as it were,
estimable."

"Yes, Josiah Allen is a good man, as good as men can be. You know men or
wimmen can't be only jest about so good anyway. But he's my choice, and he
don't drink a drop."

"Pardon me, madam, but if you are happy in your married relations, and your
husband is a temperate good man, why do you feel so upon this subject?"

"Why, good land! if you understood the nature of a woman you would know my
love for him, my happiness, the content and safety I feel about him and our
boy, makes me realize the sufferin's of Serepta in havin' her husband and
boy lost to her; makes me realize the depth of a wife's and mother's agony
when she sees the one she loves goin' down, down so low she can't reach
him; makes me feel how she must yearn to help him in some safe sure way.

"High trees cast long shadows. The happier and more blessed a woman's life
is, the more duz she feel for them that are less blessed than she. Highest
love goes lowest, like that love that left Heaven and descended to earth,
and into it that He might lift up the lowly. The pityin' words of Him who
went about pleasin' not Himself, hants me and inspires me; I'm sorry for
Serepta, sorry for the hull wimmen race of the nation, and for the men too.
Lots of 'em are good creeters, better than wimmen, some on 'em. They want
to do right, but don't exactly see the way to do it. In the old slavery
times some of the masters wuz more to be pitied than the slaves. They could
see the injustice, feel the wrong they wuz doin', but old chains of Custom
bound 'em, social customs and idees had hardened into habits of thought.

"They realized the size and heft of the evil, but didn't know how to
grapple with it, and throw it. So now, many men see the evils of this time,
want to help, but don't know the best way to lay holt of 'em. Life is a
curious conundrum anyway, and hard to guess. But we can try to git the
right answer to it as fur as we can. Serepta feels that one of the answers
to the conundrum is in gittin' her rights. I myself have got all the rights
I need or want, as fur as my own happiness is concerned. My home is my
castle (a story and a half wooden one, but dear). My towers elevate me,
the companionship of my friends give social happiness, our children are
prosperous and happy. We have property enough for all the comforts of life.
And above all other things my Josiah is my love and my theme."

"Ah, yes!" sez he, "love is a woman's empire, and in that she should find
her full content--her entire happiness and thought. A womanly woman will
not look outside that lovely and safe and beautious empire."

Sez I firmly, "If she hain't a idiot she can't help it. Love is the most
beautiful thing on earth, the most holy and satisfyin'. But I do not ask
you as a politician, but as a human bein', which would you like best, the
love of a strong, earnest tender nature, for in man or woman 'the strongest
are the tenderest, the loving are the daring,' which would you like best,
the love and respect of such a nature full of wit, of tenderness, of
infinite variety, or the love of a fool?

"A fool's love is wearin', it is insipid at best, and it turns to vinegar.
Why, sweetened water must turn to vinegar, it is its nater. And if a woman
is bright and true-hearted, she can't help seein' through an injustice. She
may be happy in her own home. Domestic affection, social enjoyments, the
delights of a cultured home and society, and the companionship of the man
she loves and who loves her, will, if she is a true woman, satisfy her own
personal needs and desires, and she would far ruther for her own selfish
happiness rest quietly in that love, that most blessed home.

"But the bright quick intellect that delights you can't help seein' an
injustice, can't help seein' through shams of all kinds, sham sentiment,
sham compliments, sham justice. The tender lovin' nature that blesses your
life can't help feelin' pity for them less blessed than herself. She looks
down through the love-guarded lattice of her home from which your care
would fain bar out all sights of woe and squaler, she looks down and sees
the weary toilers below, the hopeless, the wretched. She sees the steep
hills they have to climb, carryin' their crosses, she sees 'em go down into
the mire, dragged there by the love that should lift 'em up. She would not
be the woman you love if she could restrain her hand from liftin' up the
fallen, wipin' tears from weepin' eyes, speakin' brave words for them that
can't speak for themselves. The very strength of her affection that would
hold you up if you were in trouble or disgrace yearns to help all sorrowin'
hearts.

"Down in your heart you can't help admirin' her for this, we can't help
respectin' the one that advocates the right, the true, even if they are our
conquerors. Wimmen hain't angels; now to be candid, you know they hain't.
They hain't any better than men. Men are considerable likely; and it seems
curious to me that they should act so in this one thing. For men ort to be
more honest and open than wimmen. They hain't had to cajole and wheedle and
use little trickeries and deceits and indirect ways as wimmen have. Why,
cramp a tree limb and see if it will grow as straight and vigorous as it
would in full freedom and sunshine.

"Men ort to be nobler than women, sincerer, braver. And they ort to be
ashamed of this one trick of theirn, for they know they hain't honest in
it, they hain't generous. Give wimmen two or three generations of moral and
legal freedom and see if men will laugh at 'em for their little deceits and
affectations. No, men will be gentler, and wimmen nobler, and they will
both come nearer bein' angels, though most probable they won't be any too
good then, I hain't a mite afraid of it."




VI

"CONCERNING MOTH-MILLERS AND MINNY FISH"


The Senator kinder sithed, and that sithe sort o' brought me down onto my
feet agin as it were, and a sense of my duty, and I spoke out agin:

"Can you and will you do Serepta's errents?"

He evaded a direct answer by sayin', "As you alluded to the little indirect
ways of women, dearest madam, you will pardon me for saying that it is
my belief that the soft gentle brains of females are unfitted for the
deep hard problems men have to grapple with. They are too doll-like, too
angelically and sweetly frivolous."

"No doubt," sez I, "some wimmen are frivolous and some men foolish, for
as Mrs. Poyser said, 'God made women to match the men,' but these few
hadn't ort to disfranchise the hull race of men and wimmen. And as to soft
brains, Maria Mitchell discovered planets hid from masculine eyes from the
beginnin' of time, and do you think that wimmen can't see the black spots
on the body politic, that darkens the life of her and her children?

"Madame Curie discovered the light that looks through solid wood and iron,
and you think wimmen can't see through unjust laws and practices, the
rampant evils of to-day, and see what is on the other side, see a remedy
for 'em. Florence Nightingale could mother and help cure an army, and why
hain't men willin' to let wimmen help cure a sick legislation, kinder
mother it, and encourage it to do better? She might much better be doin'
that, than playin' bridge-whist, or rastlin' with hobble skirts, and it
wouldn't devour any more time."

He sot demute for a few minutes and then he sez, "While on the subject of
women's achievements, dearest madam, allow me to ask you, if they have
reached the importance you claim for them, why is it that so few women are
made immortal by bein' represented in the Hall of Fame? And why are the
four or five females represented there put away by themselves in a remote
unadorned corner with no roof to protect them from the rough winds and
storms that beat upon them?"

Sez I, "That's a good illustration of what I've been sayin'. It wuz owin'
to a woman's gift that America has a Hall of Fame, and it would seem that
common courtesy would give wimmen an equally desirable place amongst
the Immortals. Do you spoze that if women formed half the committee of
selection--which they should since it wuz a woman's gift that made such a
place possible--do you spoze that if she had an equal voice with men, the
names of noble wimmen would be tucked away in a remote unroofed corner?

"Edgar Allan Poe's genius wuz worthy a place among the Immortals, no doubt;
his poems and stories excite wonder and admiration. But do they move the
soul like Mrs. Stowe's immortal story that thrilled the world and helped
free a race?--yes, two races--for the curse of slavery held the white race
in bondage, too. Yet she and her three or four woman companions face the
stormy winds in an out-of-the-way corner, while Poe occupies his honorable
sightly place among his fifty or more male companions.

"Wimmen have always been admonished to not strive for right and justice
but to lean on men's generosity and chivalry. Here wuz a place where that
chivalry would have shone, but it didn't seem to materialize, and if wimmen
had leaned on it, it would have proved a weak staff, indeed.

"Such things as this are constantly occurring and show plain that wimmen
needs the ballot to protect her from all sorts of wrongs and indignities.
Men take wimmen's money, as they did here, and use it to uplift themselves,
and lower her, like taxin' her heavily and often unjustly and usin' this
money to help forward unjust laws which she abominates. And so it goes on,
and will, until women are men's equals legally and politically."

"Ahem--you present things in a new light. I never looked at this matter
with your eyes."

"No, you looked at 'em through a man's eyes; such things are so customary
that men do 'em without thinkin', from habit and custom, like hushin' up
children's talk, when they interrupt grown-ups."

Agin he sot demute for a short space, and then said, "I feel that natural
human instinct is aginst the change. In savage races that knew nothin' of
civilization, male force and strength always ruled."

"Why," sez I, "history tells us of savage races where wimmen always rule,
though I don't think they ort to--ability and goodness ort to rule."

"Nature is aginst it," sez he.

But I sez firmly, "Bees and lots of other insects and animals always have
a female for queen and ruler. They rule blindly and entirely, right on
through the centuries, but we are enlightened and should not encourage it.
In my opinion the male bee has just as good a right to be monarch as his
female pardner has, if he is as good and knows as much. I never believed in
the female workin' ones killin' off the male drones to save winterin' 'em;
they might give 'em some light chores to do round the hive to pay for their
board. I love justice and that would be _my_ way."

Agin he sithed. "Modern history don't seem to favor the scheme--" But his
axent wuz as weak as a cat and his boughten smile seemed crackin' and
wearin' out; he knowed better.

Sez I, "We won't argy long on that p'int, for I might overwhelm you if
I approved of overwhelmin', but, will merely ask you to cast one eye on
England. Was the rain of Victoria the Good less peaceful and prosperous
than that of the male rulers who preceded her? And you can then throw your
other eye over to Holland: is their sweet queen less worthy and beloved
to-day than other European monarchs? And is her throne more shaky and
tottlin' than theirn?"

He didn't try to dispute me and bowed his head on his breast in a almost
meachin' way. He knowed he wuz beat on every side, and almost to the end of
his chain of rusty, broken old arguments. But anon he brightened up agin
and sez, ketchin' holt of the last shackly link of his argument:

"You seem to place a great deal of dependence on the Bible. The Bible is
aginst the idee. The Bible teaches man's supremacy, man's absolute power
and might and authority."

"Why, how you talk," sez I. "In the very first chapter the Bible tells how
man wuz turned right round by a woman, tells how she not only turned man
round to do as she wanted him to, but turned the hull world over.

"That hain't nothin' I approve of; I don't speak of it because I like the
idee. That wuzn't done in a open honorable manner as things should be done.
No, Eve ruled by indirect influence, the gently influencing men way, that
politicians are so fond of. And she brought ruin and destruction onto the
hull world by it.

"A few years later when men and wimmen grew wiser, when we hear of wimmen
rulin' Israel openly and honestly, like Miriam, Deborah and other likely
old four mothers, things went on better. They didn't act meachin' and
tempt, and act indirect."

He sithed powerful and sot round oneasy in his chair. And sez he, "I
thought wimmen wuz taught by the Bible to serve and love their homes."

"So they be. And every true woman loves to serve. Home is my supreme
happiness and delight, and my best happiness is found in servin' them I
love. But I must tell the truth, in the house or outdoors."

Sez he faintly, "The Old Testament may teach that women have some strength
and power. But in the New Testament in every great undertaken' and plan men
have been chosen by God to carry them through."

"Why-ee!" sez I, "how you talk! Have you ever read the Bible?"

He said evasively, his grandmother owned one, and he had seen it in early
youth. And then he went on in a sort of apologizin' way. He had always
meant to read it, but he had entered political life at an early age where
the Bible wuzn't popular, and he believed that he had never read further
than the Epistles of Gulliver to the Liliputians.

Sez I, "That hain't Bible, there hain't no Gulliver in it, and you mean
Galatians."

Well, he said, that might be it, it wuz some man he knew, and he had always
heard and believed that man wuz the only worker that God had chosen.

"Why," sez I, "the one great theme of the New Testament--the salvation of
the world through the birth of Christ--no man had anything to do with. Our
divine Lord wuz born of God and Woman. Heavenly plan of redemption for
fallen humanity. God Himself called woman into that work, the divine work
of saving a world, and why shouldn't she continue in it? God called her.
Mary had no dream of publicity, no desire of a world's work of suffering
and renunciation. The soft air of Galilee wropped her about in its sweet
content, as she dreamed her quiet dreams in maiden peace--dreamed, perhaps,
of domestic love and happiness.

"From that sweetest silence, the restful peace of happy innocent girlhood,
God called her to her divine work of helpin' redeem a world from sin. And
did not this woman's love and willin' obedience, and sufferin' set her
apart, baptize her for this work of liftin' up the fallen, helpin' the
weak?

[Illustration: "He'd entered political life where the Bible wuzn't
popular; he'd never read further than Gulliver's Epistle to the
Liliputians."]

"Is it not a part of woman's life that she gave at the birth and
crucifixion? Her faith, her hope, her sufferin', her glow of divine pity
and joyful martyrdom. These, mingled with the divine, the pure heavenly,
have they not for nineteen hundred years been blessin' the world? The God
in Christ would awe us too much; we would shield our eyes from the too
blindin' glory of the pure God-like. But the tender Christ who wept over a
sinful city, and the grave of His friend, who stopped dyin' on the cross
to comfort His mother's heart, provide for her future--it is this womanly
element in our Lord's nature that makes us dare to approach Him, dare to
kneel at His feet?

"And since woman wuz so blessed as to be counted worthy to be co-worker
with God in the beginnin' of the world's redemption; since He called
her from the quiet obscurity of womanly rest and peace into the blessed
martyrdom of renunciation and toil and sufferin', all to help a world that
cared nothin' for her, that cried out shame upon her.

"He will help her carry on the work of helpin' a sinful world. He will
protect her in it, she cannot be harmed or hindered, for the cause she
loves of helpin' men and wimmen, is God's cause too, and God will take care
of His own. Herods full of greed and frightened selfishness may try to
break her heart by efforts to kill the child she loves, but she will hold
it so clost to her bosom he can't destroy it; and the light of the Divine
will go before her, showin' the way through the desert and wilderness
mebby, but she shall bear it into safety."

"You spoke of Herod," sez he dreamily, "the name sounds familiar to me. Was
not Mr. Herod once in the United States Senate?"

"Not that one," sez I. "He died some time ago, but I guess he has relatives
there now, judgin' from laws made there. You ask who Herod wuz, and as it
all seems a new story to you, I will tell you. When the Saviour of the
world wuz born in Bethlehem, and a woman wuz tryin' to save His life, a man
by the name of Herod wuz tryin' his best out of selfishness and greed to
murder Him."

"Ah! that was not right in Herod."

"No, it hain't been called so. And what wuzn't right in him hain't right in
his relations who are tryin' to do the same thing to-day. Sellin' for money
the right to destroy the child the mother carries on her heart. Surroundin'
him with temptations so murderous, yet so enticin' to youthful spirits,
that the mother feels that as the laws are now, the grave is the only place
of safety that God Himself can find for her boy. But because Herod wuz so
mean it hain't no sign that all men are mean. Joseph wuz as likely as he
could be."

"Joseph?" sez he pensively. "Do you allude to our venerable speaker, Joe
Cannon?"

"No," sez I. "I'm talkin' Bible--I'm talkin' about Joseph; jest plain
Joseph."

"Ah! I see. I am not fully familiar with that work. Being so engrossed in
politics, and political literature, I don't git any time to devote to less
important publications."

Sez I candidly, "I knew you hadn't read it the minute you mentioned the
book of Liliputians. But as I wuz sayin', Joseph wuz a likely man. He had
the strength to lead the way, overcome obstacles, keep dangers from Mary,
protect her tenderer form with the mantilly of his generous devotion.

"_But she carried the Child on her bosom_; ponderin' high things in
her heart that Joseph never dreamed of. That is what is wanted now, and
in the future. The man and the woman walkin' side by side. He a little
ahead, mebby, to keep off dangers by his greater strength and courage. She
a-carryin' the infant Christ of Love, bearin' the baby Peace in her bosom,
carryin' it into safety from them that seek to destroy it.

"And as I said before, if God called woman into this work, He will enable
her to carry it through. He will protect her from her own weaknesses, and
the misapprehensions and hard judgments and injustices of a gain-sayin'
world.

"Yes, the star of hope is risin' in the sky brighter and brighter, and
wise men are even now comin' to the mother of the new Redeemer, led by the
star."

He sot demute. Silence rained for some time; and finally I spoke out
solemnly through the rain:

"Will you do Serepta's errents? Will you give her her rights? And will you
break the Whiskey Ring?"

He said he would love to do the errents, I had convinced him that it would
be just and right to do 'em, but the Constitution of the United States
stood up firm aginst 'em. As the laws of the United States wuz, he could
not make any move toward doin' either of the errents.

Sez I, "Can't the laws be changed?"

"Be changed? Change the laws of the United States? Tamper with the glorious
Constitution that our fore-fathers left us--an immortal sacred legacy."

He jumped up on his feet and his second-hand smile fell off. He kinder
shook as if he wuz skairt most to death and tremblin' with horrow. He did
it to skair me, I knew, but I knowed I meant well towards the Constitution
and our old forefathers; and my principles stiddied me and held me firm and
serene. And when he asked me agin in tones full of awe and horrow:

"Can it be that I heard my ear aright? Or did you speak of changin' the
unalterable laws of the United States--tampering with the Constitution?"

"Yes, that is what I said. Hain't they never been changed?"

He dropped that skairful look and put on a firm judicial one. He see that
he could not skair me to death; an' sez he, "Oh, yes, they've been changed
in cases of necessity."

Sez I, "For instance durin' the Oncivil war it wuz changed to make Northern
men cheap bloodhounds and hunters."

"Yes," he said, "it seemed to be a case of necessity and economy."

"I know it," sez I; "men wuz cheaper than any other breed of bloodhounds
the slave-holders could employ to hunt men and wimmen with, and more
faithful."

"Yes," he said, "it wuz a case of clear economy."

And sez I: "The laws have been changed to benefit liquor dealers."

"Well, yes," he said, "it had been changed to enable whiskey dealers to
utilize the surplus liquor they import."

Sez he, gittin' kinder animated, for he wuz on a congenial and familar
theme, "Nobody, the best calculators in drunkards, can exactly calculate
how much whiskey will be drunk in a year; and so, ruther than have the
whiskey dealers suffer loss, the law had to be changed. And then," sez he,
growin' still more candid in his excitement, "we are makin' a powerful
effort to change the laws now so as to take the tax off of whiskey, so it
can be sold cheaper, and obtained in greater quantities by the masses. Any
such great laws would justify a change in the Constitution and the laws;
but for any frivolous cause, any trivial cause, madam, we male custodians
of the sacred Constitution stand as walls of iron before it, guarding it
from any shadow of change. Faithful we will be, faithful unto death."

Sez I, "As it has been changed, it can be agin. And you jest said I had
convinced you that Serepta's errents wuz errents of truth and justice, and
you would love to do 'em."

"Well, yes, yes--I would love to--as it were--. But, my dear madam, much as
I would like to oblige you, I have not the time to devote to the cause of
Right and Justice. I don't think you realize the constant pressure of hard
work that is ageing us and wearing us out, before our day.

"As I said, we have to watch the liquor interest constantly to see that the
liquor dealers suffer no loss--we have to do that, of course."

And he continued dreamily, as if losin' sight of me and talkin' to himself:
"The wealthy Corporations and Trusts, we have to condemn them loudly to
please the common people, and help 'em secretly to please ourselves, or our
richest perkisits are lost. The Canal Ring, the Indian Agency, the Land
Grabbers, the political bosses. In fact, we are surrounded by a host of
bandits that we have to appease and profit by; oh, how these matters wear
into the gray matter of our brains!"

"Gray matter!" sez I, with my nose uplifted to its extremest height, "I
should call it black matter!"

"Well, the name is immaterial, but these labors, though pocket filling, are
brain wearing. And of late I and the rest of our loyal henchmen have been
worn out in our labors in tariff revision. You know how we claim to help
the common people by the revision; you've probable read about it in the
papers."

"Yes," sez I coldly, "I've hearn _talk_."

"Yes," sez he, "but if we do succeed, after the most strenious efforts in
getting the duty off champagne, green turtle, olives, etc., and put on to
sugar, tea, cotton cloth and such like, with all this brain fag and brain
labor--"

"And tongue labor!" sez I in a icy axent.

"Yes, after all this ceaseless toil the common people will not show any
gratitude; we statesmen labor oft with aching hearts." And he leaned his
forward on his hand and sithed.

But my looks wuz like ice-suckles on the north side of a barn. And I
stopped his complaints and his sithes by askin' in a voice that demanded a
reply:

"Can you and will you do Serepta's errents? Errents full of truth and
justice and eternal right?"

He said he knew they wuz jest runnin' over with them qualities, but happy
as it would make him to do 'em, he had to refuse owin' to the fur more
important matters he had named, and the many, many other laws and preambles
that he hadn't time to name over to me. "Mebby you have heard," sez
he, "that we are now engaged in making most important laws concerning
moth-millers, and minny fish, and hog cholera. And take it with these
important bills and the constant strain on our minds in tryin' to pass laws
to increase our own salaries, you can see jest how cramped we are for time.
And though we would love to pass some laws of truth and righteousness--we
fairly ache to--yet not havin' the requisite time we are forced to lay 'em
on the table or under it."

"Well," sez I, "I guess I may as well be a-goin'." And I bid him a cool
goodbye and started for the door. But jest as my hand wuz on the nub he
jumped up and opened the door, wearin' that boughten second-hand smile agin
on his linement, and sez he:

"Dear madam, perhaps Senator B. will do the errents for you."

Sez I, "Where is Senator B.?" And he said I would find him at his Post of
Duty at the Capitol.

"Well," I said, "I will hunt up the Post," and did. A grand enough place
for a Emperor or a Zar is the Capitol of our great nation where I found
him, a good natured lookin' boy in buttons showin' me the Post.




VII

"NO HAMPERIN' HITCHIN' STRAPS"


Well, Senator B. wanted to do the errents but said it wuz not his place,
and sent me to Senator C., and he almost cried, he wanted to do 'em so bad,
but stern duty tied him to his Post, he said, and he sent me to Senator D.,
and he _did_ cry onto his handkerchief, he wanted to do the errents so
bad, and said it would be such a good thing to have 'em done. He bust right
into tears as he said he had to refuse to do 'em. Whether they wuz wet
tears or dry ones I couldn't tell, his handkerchief wuz so big, but I hearn
his sithes, and they wuz deep and powerful ones.

But as I sez to him, "Wet tears, nor dry ones, nor windy sithes didn't help
do the errents." So I went on his sobbin' advice to Senator E., and he wuz
huffy and didn't want to do 'em and said so. And said his wife had thirteen
children, and wimmen instead of votin' ort to go and do likewise.

And I told him it wouldn't look well in onmarried wimmen and widders, and
if they should foller her example folks would talk.

And he said, "They ort to marry."

And I said, "As the fashion is now, wimmen had to wait for some man to ask
'em, and if they didn't come up to the mark and ask 'em, who wuz to blame?"

He wouldn't answer, and looked sulky, but honest, and wouldn't tell me who
to go to to git the errents done.

But jest outside his door I met the Senator I had left sobbin' over the
errents. He looked real hilarious, but drawed his face down when he ketched
my eye, and sithed several times, and sent me to Senator F. and he sent me
to Senator G.

And suffice it to say I wuz sent round, and talked to, and cried at, and
sulked to, and smiled at and scowled at, and encouraged and discouraged,
'till my head swum and my knees wobbled under me. And with all my efforts
and outlay of oratory and shue leather not one of Serepta Pester's errents
could I git done, and no hopes held out of their ever bein' done. And about
the middle of the afternoon I gin up, there wuz no use in tryin' any longer
and I turned my weary tracks towards the outside door. But as bad as I
felt, I couldn't help my sperit bein' lifted up some by the grandeur about
me.

Oh, my land! to stand in the immense hall and look up, and up, and see all
the colors of the rain-bow and see what wonderful pictures there wuz up
there in the sky above me as it were. Why, it seemed curiouser than any
Northern lights I ever see in my life, and they stream up dretful curious
sometimes. And as I walked through that lofty and most beautiful place and
realized the size and majestic proportions of the buildin' I wondered to
myself that a small law, a little unjust law could ever be passed in such
grand and magnificent surroundin's. And I sez to myself, it can't be the
fault of the place anyway; the law-makers have a chance for their souls
to soar if they want to, here is room and to spare to pass laws big as
elephants and camels, and I wondered that they should ever try to pass laws
as small as muskeeters and nats. Thinkses I, I wonder them little laws
don't git to strollin' round and git lost in them magnificent corridors.
But I consoled myself, thinkin' it wouldn't be no great loss if they did.
But right here, as I wuz thinkin' on these deep and lofty subjects, I met
the good natured young chap that had showed me round and he sez:

"You look fatigued, mom." (Soarin' even to yourself is tuckerin'.) "You
look very fatigued; won't you take something?"

I looked at him with a curious silent sort of a look; for I didn't know
what he meant. Agin he looked clost at me and sort o' pityin'; and sez he,
"You look tired out, mom. Won't you take something? Let me treat you to
something; what will you take, mom?"

I thought he wuz actin' dretful liberal, but I knew they had strange ways
in Washington anyway. And I didn't know but it wuz their way to make some
present to every woman that comes there, and I didn't want to act awkward
and out of style, so I sez:

"I don't want to take anything, and don't see any reason why you should
insist on't. But if I have got to take sunthin' I had jest as soon have a
few yards of factory cloth as anything. That always comes handy."

I thought that if he wuz determined to treat me to show his good feelin's
towards me, I would git sunthin' useful and that would do me some good,
else what wuz the good of bein' treated? And I thought that if I had got to
take a present from a strange man, I would make a shirt for Josiah out of
it. I thought that would save jealousy and make it right so fur as goodness
went.

"But," sez he, "I mean beer or wine or liquor of some kind."

I riz right up in my shues and dignity, and glared at him.

Sez he, "There is a saloon right here handy in the buildin'."

Sez I in awful axents, "It is very appropriate to have it here handy!" Sez
I, "Liquor duz more towards makin' the laws of the United States from
Caucus to Convention than anything else duz, and it is highly proper to
have it here so they can soak the laws in it right off before they lay 'em
onto the table or under 'em, or pass 'em onto the people. It is highly
appropriate," sez I.

"Yes," sez he. "It is very handy for the Senators and Congressmen, and let
me get you a glass."

"No, you won't!" sez I firmly. "The nation suffers enough from that room
now without havin' Josiah Allen's wife let in."

Sez he, "If you have any feeling of delicacy in goin' in there, let me make
some wine here. I will get a glass of water and make you some pure grape
wine, or French brandy, or corn or rye whiskey. I have all the drugs right
here." And he took a little box out of his pocket. "My father is a importer
of rare old wines, and I know just how it is done. I have 'em all here,
Capsicum, Coculus Indicus, alum, copperas, strychnine; I will make some of
the choicest, oldest, and purest imported liquors we have in the country,
in five minutes if you say so."

"No!" sez I firmly, "when I want to foller Cleopatra's fashion and commit
suicide, I will hire a rattlesnake and take my pizen as she did, on the
outside."

Well, I got back to Hiram Cagwin's tired as a dog, and Serepta's errents
ondone. But my conscience opholded me and told me I had done my very best,
and man or woman can do no more.

Well, the next day but one wuz the big outdoor suffrage meetin'. And we sot
off in good season, Hiram feelin' well enough to be left with the hired
help. Polly started before we did with some of her college mates, lookin'
pretty as a pink with a red rose pinned over a achin' heart, so I spoze,
for she loved the young man who wuz out with another girl May-flowering.
Burnin' zeal and lofty principle can't take the place in a woman's heart of
love and domestic happiness, and men needn't be afraid it will. There is no
more danger on't than there is of a settin' hen wantin' to leave her nest
to be a commercial traveler. Nature has made laws for wimmen and hens that
no ballot, male or female, can upset.

Josiah and Lorinda and I went in the trolley in good season, so's to git a
sightly place, Lorinda protestin' all the time aginst the indelicacy and
impropriety of wimmen's appearin' in outdoor meetin's, forgittin', I spose,
the dense procession of wimmen that fills the avenues every day, follerin'
Fashion and Display. As nigh as I could make out the impropriety consisted
in wimmen's follerin' after Justice and Right.

Josiah's face looked dubersome. I guess he wuz worryin' over his offer to
represent me, and thinkin' of Aunt Susan and the twins.

But as it turned out I met Diantha while Josiah wuz in a shop buyin' some
peppermint lozengers, and she said her niece had come from the West, and
they got along all right. So that lifted my burden. But I thought best not
to tell Josiah, as he wuz so bound to represent me. I thought it wouldn't
do any hurt to let him think it over about the job a man took on himself
when he sot out to represent a woman. They wouldn't like it in lots of
ways, as willin' as they seem to be in print.

Wimmen go through lots of things calm and patient that would make a man
flinch and shy off like a balky horse, and visey versey. I wouldn't want
to represent Josiah lots of times, breakin' colts, ploughin' greensward,
cuttin' cord-wood etc., etc. Men and wimmen want equal legal rights to
represent themselves and their own sex which are different, and always must
be, and both sexes don't want to be hampered and sot down on by the other
one. That is gauldin' to human nater, male or female.

We got a good place nigh the speakers' stand, and we hadn't stood there
long before the parade hove in sight, the yeller banners streamin' out like
sunshine on a rainy day, police outriders, music, etc.

More than a hundred automobiles led the parade and five times as many
wimmen walkin' afoot. A big grand-stand with the lady speakers and
their friends on it, all dressed pretty as pinks. For the old idee that
suffragists don't care for attractive dress and domestic life wuz exploded
long ago, and many other old superstitions went up in the blaze.

Those of us who have gray hair can remember when if a man spoke favorably
of women's rights the sarcastic question was asked him: "How old is Susan
B. Anthony?"

And this fine wit and cuttin' ridicule would silence argument and quench
the spirit of the upholder.

But the world moves. Susan's memory is beloved and revered, and the
contemptious ridicule of the onthinkin' and ignorant only nourished the
laurels the world lays on her tomb.

At that time accordin' to popular opinion a suffragist wuz a slatternly
woman with uncombed locks, dangling shoe strings, and bloomers, stridin'
through an unswept house onmindful of dirty children or hungry husband, but
the world moves onward and public opinion with it. Suffragists are the best
mothers, the best housekeepers, the best dressers of any wimmen in the
land. Search the records and you'll find it so, and why?

Because they know sunthin', it takes common sense to make a gooseberry
pie as it ort to be. And the more a woman knows and the more justice she
demands, the better for her husband. The same sperit that rebels at tyranny
and injustice rebels at dirt, disorder, discomfort, and all unpleasant
conditions.

I looked ahead with my mind's eye and see them pretty college girls settled
down in pleasant homes of their own, where sanitary laws prevailed,
where the babies wuzn't fed pickles and cabbage, and kep' in air-tight
enclosures. Where the husbands did not have to go outside their own homes
to find cheer and comfort, and intelligent conversation, and where Love and
Common Sense walked hand in hand toward Happiness and Contentment, Justice,
with her blinders offen her eyes, goin' ahead on 'em. I never liked the
idee of Justice wearin' them bandages over her eyes. She ort to have both
eyes open; if anybody ever needed good eyesight she duz, to choose the
straight and narrer road, lookin' backward to see the mistakes she has made
in the past, so's to shun 'em in the future, and lookin' all round her in
the present to see where she can help matters, and lookin' fur off in the
future to the bright dawn of a Tomorrow. To the shinin' mount of Equal
Rights and full Liberty. Where she sees men and wimmen standin' side by
side with no halters or hamperin' hitchin' straps on either on 'em. He more
gentle and considerate, and she less cowardly and emotional.

Good land! what could Justice do blind in one eye and wimmen on the blind
side? But good sensible wimmen are reachin' up and pullin' the bandages
offen her eyes. She's in a fair way to git her eyesight. But I'm
eppisodin', and to resoom forward.




VIII

"OLD MOM NATER LISTENIN'"


There wuz some pleasant talkin' and jokin' between bystanders and
suffragettes, and then some good natured but keen and sensible speeches.
And one pretty speaker told about the doin's at Albany and Washington. How
women's respectful pleas for justice are treated there. How the law-makers,
born and nussed by wimmen and dependent on 'em for comfort and happiness,
use the wimmen's tax money to help make laws makin' her of no legal
importance only as helpless figgers to hang taxation and punishment on.

Old Mom Nater had been listenin' clost, her sky-blue eyes shinin' with joy
to see her own sect present such a noble appearance in the parade. But
when these insults and indignities wuz brung up to her mind agin and she
realized afresh how wimmen couldn't git no more rights accorded to her than
a dog or a hen, and worse. For a hen or a dog wouldn't be taxed to raise
money for turkle soup and shampain to nourish the law-makers whilst they
made the laws agin 'em--Mom Nater's eyes clouded over with indignation and
resentment, and she boo-hooed right out a-cryin'. Helpless tears, of no
more account than other females have shed, and will, as they set on their
hard benches with idiots, lunaticks, and criminals.

Of course she wiped up her tears pretty soon, not willin' to lose any of
the wimmen's bright speeches. But when her tear-drops fell fast, Josiah sez
to me, "You'll see them wimmen run like hikers now, wimmen always thought
more of shiffon and fol-de-rols than they did of principle."

But I sez, "Wait and see," (we wuz under a awnin' and protected).

But the young and pretty speaker who wore a light silk dress and exquisite
bunnet, kep' right on talkin' jest as calmly as if she didn't know her
pretty dress wuz bein' spilte and her bunnet gittin' wet as sop, and I sez
to Josiah:

"When wimmen are so in earnest, and want anything so much they can stand
soakin' in their best dresses, and let their Sunday bunnets be spilte on
their heads, not noticin' 'em seemin'ly, but keep right on pleadin' for
right and justice, they are in a fair way of gittin' what they are after."

He looked kinder meachin' but didn't dispute me.

The speeches wuz beautiful and convincin', and pretty soon old Mom Nater
stopped cryin' to hear 'em, and she and I both listened full of joy and
happiness to see with what eloquence and justice our sect wuz pleadin' our
cause. Their arguments wuz so reasonable and convincin' that I said to
myself, I don't see how anybody can help bein' converted to this righteous
cause, the liftin' up of wimmen from her uncomfortable crouchin' poster
with criminals and idiots, up to the place she should occupy by the side
of other good citizens of the United States, with all the legal and moral
rights that go with that noble title.

And right whilst I wuz thinkin' this, sunthin' wuz happenin' that proved
I wuz right in my eppisodin', and somebody awful sot agin it wuz bein'
converted then and there (but of this more anon and bom-bye). We stayed
till we heard the last word of the last speech, I happy and proud in
sperit, Lorinda partly converted, she couldn't help it, though she wouldn't
own up to it at that juncter. And Josiah lookin' real deprested, the
thought of representin' me wuz worryin' him I knew, for I hearn him say
(soty vosy), "Represent wimmen or not, I hain't goin' to set up all night
with no old woman, and lift her round, nor dry nuss no twins."

And thinkin' his sperit wuz pierced to a sufficient depth by his
apprehension, so reason could be planted and take root, and he wouldn't be
so anxious in the future to represent a woman, I told him what Diantha said
and we all went home in good sperits. The sun shone clear, the rain had
washed the face of the Earth till it shone, and everything looked gay and
joyous.

When we got to Lorinda's we see a auto standin' in front of the door full
of flowery branches in front and the pink posies lookin' no more bright and
rosy than the faces of the two young folks settin' there. It wuz Polly and
Royal.

It seemed that when he and Maud got back from the country (and they didn't
stay long, Royal wuz so restless and oneasy) Maud insisted on his takin'
her to the suffrage meetin' jest to make fun on't, so I spoze. She thought
she had rubbed out Polly's image and made a impression herself on Royal's
heart that only needed stompin' in a little deeper, and she thought
ridicule would be the stomper she needed.

But when they got to the meetin' and he see Polly settin' like a lily
amongst flowers, and read in her lovely face the earnest desire to lift the
burden from the heavy laden, comfort the sorrowful, right the wrong, and do
what she could in her day and generation--

I spoze his eyes could only see her sweet face. But he couldn't help his
ears from hearin' the reasonable, eloquent words of earnest and womanly
wimmen, so full of good sense and truth and justice that no reasonable
person could dispute 'em, and when he contrasted all this with the sneerin'
face, the sarcastic egotistic prattle of Maud, the veil dropped from his
eyes, and he see with the New Vision.

You know how it wuz with Saul the Scoffer who went breathin' out vengeance,
and Eternal Right stopped him on his way with its great light. Well, I
spoze it wuz a bright ray from that same light that shone down into Royal's
heart and made him see. He wuz always good hearted and generous--men have
always been better than the laws they have made. He left Maud at her home
not fur away and hastened back, way-laid Polly, and bore her home in
triumph and a thirty-horse-power car.

It don't make much difference I spoze how or where anybody is converted.
The Bible speaks of some bein' ketched out of the fire, and I spoze it is
about the same if they are ketched out of the rain. 'Tennyrate the same
rain that washed some of the color off Maud's cheeks, seemed to wash away
the blindin' mist of prejudice and antagonism from Royal's mental vision,
leavin' his sperit ready for the great white light of truth and justice
to strike in. And that very day and hour he come round to Polly's way of
thinkin', and bein' smart as a whip and so rich, I suppose he will be a
great accusation to the cause.

Well, the next day but one the Allens met in a pleasant grove on the river
shore and we had a good growin' time. Royal bein' as you may say one of the
family, took us all to the grove in his big tourin' car, and the fourth
trip he took Polly alone, and wuzn't it queer that, though the load wuz fur
lighter, it took him three times as long as the other three trips together?
Why, they never got there till dinner wuz on the table, and then they
didn't seem to care a mite about the extra good food.

But I made allowances, for as I looked into their glowin' faces I knowed
they wuz partakin' of fruit from the full branches of first love, true
love. Rich fruit that gives the divinest satisfaction of any this old earth
affords. Food that never changes through the centuries, though fashion
often changes, and riotous plenty or food famine may exalt or depress the
sperit of the householder. Nothin' but time has any power over this divine
fruitage. He gradually, as the light of the honeymoon wanes, whets his old
scythe and mows down some of the luxuriant branches, either cuttin' a full
swath, or one at a time, and the blessed consumers have to come down to the
ordinary food of mortals. But this wuz still fur away from them.

And I knowed too that the ordinary food of ordinary mortals partook of
under the full harvest moon of domestic comfort and contentment wuz not to
be despised, though fur different. And the light fur different from the
glow and the glamour that wropped them two together and all the rest of the
world away from 'em.

But I'm eppisodin' too much, and to resoom forward.

As I said, we had a happy growin' time at the Reunion, Josiah bein' in fine
feather to see the relation on his side presentin' such a noble appearance.
And like a good wife I sympathized with him in his pride and happiness,
though I told him they didn't present any better appearance than the same
number of Smiths would. And their cookin', though excellent, wuz no better
than the Smiths could cook if they sot out to.

He bein' so good natered didn't dispute me outright, but said he thought
the Allens made better nut-cakes than the Smiths.

But they don't, no such thing. In fact I think the Smith nut-cakes are
lighter and have a more artistic twist to 'em and don't devour so much fat
a-fryin'.

But I'd hate to set Josiah down to any better vittles. I d'no as I would
dast let him loose at the table at a Smith reunion, for he eat fur too much
as it wuz. I had to give him five pepsin lozengers and some pepper tea. And
then I looked out all night for night mairs to ride on his chist. But he
come through it alive though with considerable pain.

We stayed two or three days longer with Lorinda, and then she and Hiram
went part way with us as we visited our way home. We've got relations
livin' all along the river that we owed visits to. And we went to see a
number of 'em and enjoyed our four selves first rate. These things all took
place more than a year ago and another man sets in the high chair, before
which I laid Serepta's errents, a man not so hefty mebby weighed by common
steelyards, but one of noble weight judged by mental and moral scales.

I d'no whether I'd had any better luck if I'd presented Serepta's errents
to him. Sometimes when I look in the kind eyes of his picter, and read his
noble and eloquent words that I believe come from his very soul, I think
mebby I'd been more lucky if he'd sot in the chair that day. But then I
d'no, there are so many influences and hendrances planted like thorns in
the cushion of that chair that a man, no matter how earnest he strives to
do jest right, can't help bein' pricked by 'em and held back. And I know he
could never done them errents in the time she sot, but I'm in hopes he'll
throw his powerful influence jest as fur as he can on the side of right,
and justice to all the citizens of the U.S., wimmen as well as men.

'Tennyrate, he has showed more heroism now than many soldiers who risk life
on the battle field. For the worst foe to fight and conquer is Ridicule;
and he and others in high places have attackted Fashion so entrenched in
the solid armour of Habit that most public men wouldn't have dasted to take
arms agin it.

And the long waves of Time must swash up agin the shores of Eternity,
before the good it has done can be estimated. How fur the influence has
extended. How many weak wills been strengthened. How many broken hearts
healed. How many young lives inspired to nobler and saner living.

But to resoom forward, I can't nor won't carry them errents of Serepta's
there again. It is too wearin' for one of my age and my rheumatiz. What a
tedious time I did put in there. It wuz a day long to be remembered by me.




IX

THE WOMEN'S PARADE


Josiah come home from Jonesville one day, all wrought up. He'd took off a
big crate of eggs and got returns from several crates he'd sent to New
York, an' he sez to me:

"That consarned Middleman is cheatin' me the worst kind. I know the yaller
Plymouth Rock eggs ort to bring mor'n the white Leghorns; they're bigger
and it stands to reason they're worth more, and he don't give nigh so much.
I believe he eats 'em himself and that's why he wants to git 'em cheaper."

"No Middleman," sez I, "could eat fifty dozen a week."

"He could if he eat enough at one time. 'Tennyrate, I'm goin' to New York
to see about it."

"When are you goin'?" sez I.

"I'm goin' to-morrow mornin'. I'm goin' in onexpected and I lay out to
catch him devourin' them big eggs himself."

"Oh, shaw!" sez I. "The idee!"

"Well, I say the Trusts and Middlemen are dishonest as the old Harry. Don't
you remember what one on 'em writ to Uncle Sime Bentley and what he writ
back? He'd sent a great load of potatoes to him and he didn't get hardly
anything for 'em, only their big bill for sellin' 'em. They charged him for
freightage, carage, storage, porterage, weightage, and to make their bill
longer, they put in _ratage_ and _satage_.

"Uncle Sime writ back 'You infarnel thief, you, put in "stealage" and keep
the whole on't.'"

But I sez, "They're not all dishonest. There are good men among 'em as well
as bad."

"Well, I lay out to see to it myself, and if they ever charge me for
'ratage' and 'satage' I'm goin' to see what they are, and how they look."

"Well," sez I, "if you're bound to go, I'll get up and get a good breakfast
and go with you." It was the day of the Woman's Suffrage Parade and I
wanted to see it. I wanted to like a dog, and had ever since I hearn of it.
Though some of the Jonesvillians felt different. The Creation Searchin'
Society wuz dretful exercised about it. The President's stepma is a strong
She Aunty and has always ruled Philander with an iron hand. I've always
noticed that women who didn't want any rights always took the right to have
their own way. But 'tennyrate Philander come up a very strong He Aunty.
And he felt that the Creation Searchers ort to go to New York that day to
assist the Aunties in sneerin' at the marchers, writin' up the parade,
and helpin' count 'em. Philander wuz always good at figures, specially at
subtraction, and he and his Step Ma thought he ort to be there to help.

I told Josiah I guessed the She Aunties didn't need no help at that.

But Philander called a meetin' of the Creation Searchers to make
arrangements to go. And I spoze the speech he made at the meetin' wuz a
powerful effort. And the members most all on 'em believin' as he did--they
said it wuz a dretful interestin' meetin'. Sunthin' like a love feast, only
more wrought up and excitin'.

The editor of the _Auger_ printed the whole thing in his paper, and
said it give a staggerin' blow agin Woman's Suffrage, and he didn't know
but it wuz a death blow--he hoped it wuz.

"A Woman's Parade," sez Philander, "is the most abominable sight ever seen
on our planetary system. Onprotected woman dressed up in fine clothes
standin' up on her feet, and paradin' herself before strange men. Oh! how
bold! Oh! how onwomanly! No wonder," says he, "the She Aunties are shocked
at the sight, and say they marched to attract the attention of men. Why
can't women stay to home and set down and knit? And then men would love
'em. But if they keep on with these bold, forward actions, men won't love
'em, and they will find out so. And it has always been, and is now, man's
greatest desire and chiefest aim he has aimed at, to protect women, to
throw the shinin' mantilly of his constant devotion about her delikit form
and shield her and guard her like the very apples in his eyes.

"Woman is too sweet and tender a flower to have any such hardship put upon
her, and it almost crazes a man, and makes him temporarily out of his head,
to see women do anything to hazard that inheriant delicacy of hern, that
always appealed so to the male man.

"Let us go forth, clad in our principles (and ordinary clothing, of
course), and show just where we stand on the woman question, and do all we
can to assist the gentle feminine She Aunties. Lovely, retirin' females
whose pictures we so often see gracin' the sensational newspapers. Their
white womanly neck and shoulders, glitterin' with jewels, no brighter than
their eyes. They don't appear there for sex appeal, or to win admiration.
No indeed! No doubt they shrink from the publicity. And also shrink from
making speeches in the Senate chambers or the halls of Justice, but will do
so, angelic martyrs that they are, to hold their erring Suffrage sisters
back from their brazen efforts at publicity and public speakin'."

They said his speech wuz cheered wildly, give out for publication, and
entered into the moments of the Society.

But after all, it happened real curious the day of the Parade every leadin'
Creation Searcher had some impediment in his way, and couldn't go, and of
course, the Society didn't want to go without its leaders.

Mis' Philander Daggett, the president's wife, wuz paperin' her settin' room
and parlor overhead. She wuz expectin' company and couldn't put it off.
And bein' jest married, and thinkin' the world of her, Philander said he
dassent leave home for fear she'd fall offen the barrel and break her neck.
She had a board laid acrost two barrels to stand up on. And every day
Philander would leave his outside work and come into the house, and set
round and watch her--he thought so much of her. I suppose he wanted to
catch her if she fell. But I didn't think she would fall. She is young and
tuff, and she papered it real good, though it wuz dretful hard on her arm
sockets and back.

And the Secretary's wife wuz puttin' in a piece of onions. She thought she
would make considerable by it, and she will, if onions keep up. But it is
turrible hard on a woman's back to weed 'em. But she is ambitious; she
raised a flock of fifty-six turkeys last year besides doin' her house
work, and makin' seventy-five yards of rag carpet. And she thought onions
wouldn't be so wearin' on her as turkeys, for onions, she said, will stay
where they are put, but turkeys are born wanderers and hikers. And they led
her through sun and rain, swamp and swale, uphill and downhill, a-chasin'
'em up, but she made well by 'em. Well, in puttin' in her onion seed, she
overworked herself and got a crick in her back, so she couldn't stir hand
nor foot for two days. And bein' only just them two, her husband had to
stay home to see to things.

And the Treasurer's wife is canvassin' for the life of William J. Bryan.
And wantin' to make all she could, she took a longer tramp than common, and
didn't hear of the Parade or meetin' of the C.S.S. at all. She writ home
a day or two before the meetin', that she wuz goin' as long as her legs
held out, and they needn't write to her, for she didn't know where she
would be.

Well, of course, the Creation Searchers didn't want to go without their
officers. They said they couldn't make no show if they did. So they give up
goin'. But I spoze they made fun of the Woman's Parade amongst theirselves,
and mourned over their indelikit onwomanly actions, and worried about it
bein' too hard for 'em, and sneered at 'em considerable.

Well, Josiah always loves to have me with him, an' though he'd made light
of the Parade, he didn't object to my goin'. And suffice it to say that we
arrove at that Middleman's safe and sound, though why we didn't git lost in
that grand immense depo and wander 'round there all day like babes in the
woods, is more'n I can tell.

The Middleman wuzn't dishonest: he convinced Josiah on it. He had shipped
the colored eggs somewhere, and of course he couldn't pay as much, and he
never had hearn of _Ratage_ or _Satage_. He wuz a real pleasant
Middleman, and hearing me say how much I wanted to see the Woman's Parade,
he invited us to go upstairs and set by a winder, where there was a good
view on't. We'd eat our lunch on the train and we accepted his invitation,
and sot down by a winder then and there, though it wuz a hour or so before
the time sot for the Parade. And I should have taken solid comfort watchin'
the endless procession of men and women and vehicles of all sorts and
descriptions, but Josiah made so many slightin' remarks on the dress of
the females passin' below on the sidewalk, that it made me feel bad. And
to tell the truth, though I didn't think best to own up to it to him, I
_did_ blush for my sect to see the way some on 'em rigged themselves
out.

"See that thing!" Josiah sez, as a woman passed by with her hat drawed down
over one eye, and a long quill standin' out straight behind more'n a foot,
an' her dress puckered in so 'round the bottom, she couldn't have took a
long step if a mad dog wuz chasin' her--to say nothin' of bein' perched up
on such high heels, that she fairly tottled when she walked.

Sez Josiah: "Does that _thing_ know enough to vote?"

"No," sez I, reasonably, "she don't. But most probable if she had bigger
things to think about she'd loosen the puckerin' strings 'round her ankles,
push her hat back out of her eyes, an' get down on her feet again."

"Why, Samantha," says he, "if you had on one of them skirts tied 'round
your ankles, if I wuz a-dyin' on the upper shelf in the buttery, you
couldn't step up on a chair to get to me to save your life, an' I'd have
to die there alone."

"Why should you be dyin' on the buttery shelf, Josiah?" sez I.

"Oh, that wuz jest a figger of speech, Samantha."

"But folks ort to be mejum in figgers of speech, Josiah, and not go too
fur."

"Do you think, Samantha, that anybody can go too fur in describin' them
fool skirts, and them slit skirts, and the immodesty and indecensy of some
of them dresses?"

[Illustration: "Sez Josiah, 'Does that thing know enough to vote?'"]

"I don't know as they can," sez I, sadly.

"Jest look at that thing," sez he again.

And as I looked, the hot blush of shame mantillied my cheeks, for I felt
that my sect was disgraced by the sight. She wuz real pretty, but she
didn't have much of any clothes on, and what she did wear wuzn't in the
right place; not at all.

Sez Josiah, "That girl would look much more modest and decent if she wuz
naked, for then she might be took for a statute."

And I sez, "I don't blame the good Priest for sendin' them away from the
Lord's table, sayin', 'I will give no communion to a Jezabel.' And the pity
of it is," sez I, "lots of them girls are innocent and don't realize what
construction will be put on the dress they blindly copy from some furrin
fashion plate."

Then quite an old woman passed by, also robed or disrobed in the prevailin'
fashion, and Josiah sez, soty vosy, "I should think she wuz old enough to
know sunthin'. Who wants to see her old bones?" And he sez to me, real
uppish, "Do you think them things know enough to vote?"

But jest then a young man went by dressed fashionably, but if he hadn't had
the arm of a companion, he couldn't have walked a step; his face wuz red
and swollen, and dissipated, and what expression wuz left in his face wuz a
fool expression, and both had cigarettes in their mouths, and I sez, "Does
_that_ thing know enough to vote?" And jest behind them come a lot
of furrin laborers, rough and rowdy-lookin', with no more expression in
their faces than a mule or any other animal. "Do _they_ know enough
to vote?" sez I. "As for the fitness for votin' it is pretty even on both
sides. Good intelligent men ortn't to lose the right of suffrage for the
vice and ignorance of some of their sect, and that argument is jest as
strong for the other sect."

But before Josiah could reply, we hearn the sound of gay music, and the
Parade began to march on before us. First a beautiful stately figure seated
fearlessly on a dancin' horse, that tossted his head as if proud of the
burden he wuz carryin'. She managed the prancin' steed with one hand,
and with the other held aloft the flag of our country. Jest as women ort
to, and have to. They have got to manage wayward pardners, children and
domestics who, no matter how good they are, will take their bits in their
mouths, and go sideways some of the time, but can be managed by a sensible,
affectionate hand, and with her other hand at the same time she can carry
her principles aloft, wavin' in every domestic breeze, frigid or torrid,
plain to be seen by everybody.

Then come the wives and relations of Senators and Congressmen, showin' that
bein' right on the spot they knowed what wimmen needed. Then the wimmen
voters from free Suffrage states, showin' by their noble looks that votin'
hadn't hurt 'em any. They carried the most gorgeous banner in the whole
Parade. Then the Wimmen's Political Union, showin' plain in their faces
that understandin' the laws that govern her ain't goin' to keep woman from
looking beautiful and attractive.

On and on they come, gray-headed women and curly-headed children from
every station in life: the millionairess by the working woman, and the
fashionable society woman by the business one. Two women on horseback,
and one blowin' a bugle, led the way for the carriage of Madam Antoinette
Blackwell. I wonder if she ever dreamed when she wuz tryin' to climb the
hill of knowledge through the thorny path of sex persecution, that she
would ever have a bugle blowed in front of her, to honor her for her
efforts, and form a part of such a glorious Parade of the sect she give her
youth and strength to free.

How they swept on, borne by the waves of music, heralded by wavin' banners
of purple and white and gold, bearin' upliftin' and noble mottoes.
Physicians, lawyers, nurses, authors, journalists, artists, social workers,
dressmakers, milliners, women from furrin countries dressed in their quaint
costumes, laundresses, clerks, shop girls, college girls, all bearin' the
pennants and banners of their different colleges: Vassar, Wellesley, Smith,
etc., etc. High-school pupils, Woman's Suffrage League, Woman's Social
League, and all along the brilliant line each division dressed in beautiful
costumes and carryin' their own gorgeous banners. And anon or oftener all
along the long, long procession bands of music pealin' out high and sweet,
as if the Spirit of Music, who is always depictered as a woman, was glad
and proud to do honor to her own sect. And all through the Parade you could
see every little while men on foot and on horseback, not a great many, but
jest enough to show that the really noble men wuz on their side. For, as
I've said more formally, that is one of the most convincin' arguments for
Woman's Suffrage. In fact, it don't need any other. That bad men fight
against Women's Suffrage with all their might.

Down by the big marble library, the grand-stand wuz filled with men seated
to see their wives march by on their road to Victory. I hearn and believe,
they wuz a noble-lookin' set of men. They had seen their wives in the past
chasin' Fashion and Amusement, and why shouldn't they enjoy seein' them
follow Principle and Justice? Well, I might talk all day and not begin
to tell of the beauty and splendor of the Woman's Parade. And the most
impressive sight to me wuz to see how the leaven of individual right and
justice had entered into all these different classes of society, and how
their enthusiasm and earnestness must affect every beholder.

And in my mind I drawed pictures of the different modes of our American
women and our English sisters, each workin' for the same cause, but in what
a different manner. Of course, our English sisters may have more reason for
their militant doin's; more unjust laws regarding marriage--divorce, and
care of children, and I can't blame them married females for wantin' to
control their own money, specially if they earnt it by scrubbin' floors
and washin'. I can't blame 'em for not wantin' their husbands to take
that money from them and their children, specially if they're loafers and
drunkards. And, of course, there are no men so noble and generous as our
American men. But jest lookin' at the matter from the outside and comparin'
the two, I wuz proud indeed of our Suffragists.

While our English sisters feel it their duty to rip and tear, burn and
pillage, to draw attention to their cause, and reach the gole (which
I believe they have sot back for years) through the smoke and fire of
carnage, our American Suffragettes employ the gentle, convincin' arts of
beauty and reason. Some as the quiet golden sunshine draws out the flowers
and fruit from the cold bosom of the earth. Mindin' their own business,
antagonizin' and troublin' no one, they march along and show to every
beholder jest how earnest they be. They quietly and efficiently answer that
argument of the She Auntys, that women don't want to vote, by a parade two
hours in length, of twenty thousand. They answer the argument that the
ballot would render women careless in dress and reckless, by organizin'
and carryin' on a parade so beautiful, so harmonious in color and design
that it drew out enthusiastic praise from even the enemies of Suffrage.
They quietly and without argument answered the old story that women was
onbusiness-like and never on time, by startin' the Parade the very minute
it was announced, which you can't always say of men's parades.

It wuz a burnin' hot day, and many who'd always argued that women hadn't
strength enough to lift a paper ballot, had prophesied that woman wuz too
delicately organized, too "fraguile," as Betsy Bobbet would say, to endure
the strain of the long march in the torrid atmosphere.

But I told Josiah that women had walked daily over the burning plow shares
of duty and domestic tribulation, till their feet had got calloused, and
could stand more'n you'd think for.

And he said he didn't know as females had any more burnin' plow shares to
tread on than men had.

And I sez, "I didn't say they had, Josiah. I never wanted women to get more
praise or justice than men. I simply want 'em to get as much--just an even
amount; for," sez I, solemnly, "'male and female created He them.'"

Josiah is a deacon, and when I quote Scripture, he has to listen
respectful, and I went on: "I guess it wuz a surprise even to the marchers
that of all the ambulances that kept alongside the Parade to pick up faint
and swoonin' females, the only one occupied wuz by a man."

Josiah denied it, but I sez, "I see his boots stickin' out of the ambulance
myself." Josiah couldn't dispute that, for he knows I am truthful. But he
sez, sunthin' in the sperit of two little children I hearn disputin'. Sez
one: "It wuzn't so; you've told a lie."

"Well," sez the other, "You broke a piece of china and laid it to me."

Sez Josiah, "You may have seen a pair of men's boots a-stickin' out of the
ambulance, but I'll bet they didn't have heels on 'em a inch broad, and
five or six inches high."

"No, Josiah," sez I, "you're right. Men think too much of their comfort and
health to hist themselves up on such little high tottlin' things, and you
didn't see many on 'em in the Parade."

But he went on drivin' the arrow of higher criticism still deeper into
my onwillin' breast. "I'll bet you didn't see his legs tied together at
the ankles, or his trouses slit up the sides to show gauze stockin's and
anklets and diamond buckles. And you didn't see my sect who honored the
Parade by marchin' in it, have a goose quill half a yard long, standin'
up straight in the air from a coal-scuttle hat, or out sideways, a hejus
sight, and threatenin' the eyes of friend and foe."

"And you didn't see many on 'em in the Parade," sez I agin. "Women, as they
march along to Victory, have got to drop some of these senseless things.
In fact, they are droppin' em. You don't see waists now the size of a hour
glass. It is gettin' fashionable to breathe now, and women on their way to
their gole will drop by the way their high heels; it will git fashionable
to walk comfortable, and as they've got to take some pretty long steps to
reach the ballot in 1916, it stands to reason they've got to have a skirt
wide enough at the bottom to step up on the gole of Victory. It is a high
step, Josiah, but women are goin' to take it. They've always tended to
cleanin' their own house, and makin' it comfortable and hygenic for its
members, big and little. And when they turn their minds onto the best way
to clean the National house both sects have to live in to make it clean
and comfortable and safe for the weak and helpless as well as for the
strong--it stands to reason they won't have time or inclination to stand up
on stilts with tied-in ankles, quilled out like savages."

"Well," said Josiah, with a dark, forebodin' look on his linement, "_we
shall see_."

"Yes," sez I, with a real radiant look into the future. "_We shall
see_, Josiah."

But he didn't have no idea of the beautiful prophetic vision I beheld
with the eyes of my sperit. Good men and good women, each fillin' their
different spears in life, but banded together for the overthrow of evil,
the uplift of the race.




X

"THE CREATION SEARCHIN' SOCIETY"


It was only a few days after we got home from New York that Josiah come
into the house dretful excited. He'd had a invitation to attend a meetin'
of the Creation Searchin' Society.

"Why," sez I, "did they invite you? You are not a member?"

"No," sez he, "but they want me to help 'em be indignant. It is a
indignation meetin'."

"Indignant about what?" I sez.

"Fur be it from me, Samantha, to muddle up your head and hurt your feelin's
by tellin' you what it's fur." And he went out quick and shet the door. But
I got a splendid dinner and afterwards he told me of his own accord.

I am not a member, of course, for the president, Philander Daggett, said it
would lower the prestige of the society in the eyes of the world to have
even one female member. This meetin' wuz called last week for the purpose
of bein' indignant over the militant doin's of the English Suffragettes.
Josiah and several others in Jonesville wuz invited to be present at this
meetin' as sort of honorary members, as they wuz competent to be jest as
indignant as any other male men over the tribulations of their sect.

Josiah said so much about the meetin', and his Honorary Indignation, that
he got me curious, and wantin' to go myself, to see how it wuz carried on.
But I didn't have no hopes on't till Philander Daggett's new young wife
come to visit me and I told her how much I wanted to go, and she bein' real
good-natered said she would make Philander let me in.

He objected, of course, but she is pretty and young, and his nater bein'
kinder softened and sweetened by the honey of the honeymoon, she got round
him. And he said that if we would set up in a corner of the gallery behind
the melodeon, and keep our veils on, he would let her and me in. But we
must keep it secret as the grave, for he would lose all the influence he
had with the other members and be turned out of the Presidential chair if
it wuz knowed that he had lifted wimmen up to such a hite, and gin 'em such
a opportunity to feel as if they wuz equal to men.

Well, we went early and Josiah left me to Philander's and went on to do
some errents. He thought I wuz to spend the evenin' with her in becomin'
seclusion, a-knittin' on his blue and white socks, as a woman should. But
after visitin' a spell, jest after it got duskish, we went out the back
door and went cross lots, and got there ensconced in the dark corner
without anybody seein' us and before the meetin' begun.

Philander opened the meetin' by readin' the moments of the last meetin',
which wuz one of sympathy with the police of Washington for their noble
efforts to break up the Woman's Parade, and after their almost Herculaneum
labor to teach wimmen her proper place, and all the help they got from the
hoodlum and slum elements, they had failed in a measure, and the wimmen,
though stunned, insulted, spit on, struck, broken boneded, maimed, and tore
to pieces, had succeeded in their disgustin' onwomanly undertakin'.

But it wuz motioned and carried that a vote of thanks be sent 'em and
recorded in the moments that the Creation Searchers had no blame but only
sympathy and admiration for the hard worked Policemen for they had done all
they could to protect wimmen's delicacy and retirin' modesty, and put her
in her place, and no man in Washington or Jonesville could do more. He read
these moments, in a real tender sympathizin' voice, and I spoze the members
sympathized with him, or I judged so from their linements as I went
forward, still as a mouse, and peeked down on 'em.

He then stopped a minute and took a drink of water; I spoze his sympathetic
emotions had het him up, and kinder dried his mouth, some. And then he went
on to state that this meetin' wuz called to show to the world, abroad and
nigh by, the burnin' indignation this body felt, as a society, at the
turrible sufferin's and insults bein' heaped onto their male brethren
in England by the indecent and disgraceful doin's of the militant
Suffragettes, and to devise, if possible, some way to help their male
brethren acrost the sea. "For," sez he, "pizen will spread. How do we know
how soon them very wimmen who had to be spit on and struck and tore to
pieces in Washington to try to make 'em keep their place, the sacred and
tender place they have always held enthroned as angels in a man's heart--"

Here he stopped and took out his bandanna handkerchief, and wiped his eyes,
and kinder choked. But I knew it wuz all a orator's art, and it didn't
affect me, though I see a number of the members wipe their eyes, for this
talk appealed to the inheriant chivalry of men, and their desire to protect
wimmen, we have always hearn so much about.

"How do we know," he continued, "how soon they may turn aginst their best
friends, them who actuated by the loftiest and tenderest emotions, and
determination to protect the weaker sect at any cost, took their valuable
time to try to keep wimmen down where they ort to be, _angels of the
home_, who knows but they may turn and throw stuns at the Capitol an'
badger an' torment our noble lawmakers, a-tryin' to make 'em listen to
their silly petitions for justice?"

In conclusion, he entreated 'em to remember that the eye of the world wuz
on 'em, expectin' 'em to be loyal to the badgered and woman endangered sect
abroad, and try to suggest some way to stop them woman's disgraceful
doin's.

Cyrenus Presly always loves to talk, and he always looks on the dark side
of things, and he riz up and said "he didn't believe nothin' could be done,
for by all he'd read about 'em, the men had tried everything possible to
keep wimmen down where they ort to be, they had turned deaf ears to their
complaints, wouldn't hear one word they said, they had tried drivin'
and draggin' and insults of all kinds, and breakin' their bones, and
imprisonment, and stuffin' 'em with rubber tubes, thrust through their nose
down into their throats. And he couldn't think of a thing more that could
be done by men, and keep the position men always had held as wimmen's
gardeens and protectors, and he said he thought men might jest as well keep
still and let 'em go on and bring the world to ruin, for that was what they
wuz bound to do, and they couldn't be stopped unless they wuz killed off."

Phileman Huffstater is a old bachelder, and hates wimmen. He had been on a
drunk and looked dretful, tobacco juice runnin' down his face, his red hair
all towsled up, and his clothes stiff with dirt. He wuzn't invited, but had
come of his own accord. He had to hang onto the seat in front of him as he
riz up and said:

"He believed that wuz the best and only way out on't, for men to rise up
and kill off the weaker sect, for their wuzn't never no trouble of any name
or nater, but what wimmen wuz to the bottom on't, and the world would be
better off without 'em." But Philander scorfed at him and reminded him that
such hullsale doin's would put an end to the world's bein' populated at
all.

But Phileman said in a hicuppin', maudlin way that "the world had better
stop, if there had got to be such doin's, wimmen risin' up on every side,
and pretendin' to be equal with men."

Here his knee jints kinder gin out under him, and he slid down onto the
seat and went to sleep.

I guess the members wuz kinder shamed of Phileman, for Lime Peedick jumped
up quick as scat and said, "It seemed the Englishmen had tried most
everything else, and he wondered how it would work if them militant wimmen
could be ketched and a dose of sunthin' bitter and sickenin' poured down
'em. Every time they broached that loathsome doctrine of equal rights, and
tried to make lawmakers listen to their petitions, jest ketch 'em and pour
down 'em a big dose of wormwood or sunthin' else bitter and sickenin', and
he guessed they would git tired on't."

But here Josiah jumped up quick and said, "he objected," he said, "that
would endanger the right wimmen always had, and ort to have of cookin' good
vittles for men and doin' their housework, and bearin' and bringin' up
their children, and makin' and mendin' and waitin' on 'em. He said nothin'
short of a Gatlin gun could keep Samantha from speakin' her mind about such
things, and he wuzn't willin' to have her made sick to the stomach, and
incapacitated from cookin' by any such proceedin's."

The members argued quite awhile on this pint, but finally come round to
Josiah's idees, and the meetin' for a few minutes seemed to come to a
standstill, till old Cornelius Snyder got up slowly and feebly. He has
spazzums and can't hardly wobble. His wife has to support him, wash and
dress him, and take care on him like a baby. But he has the use of his
tongue, and he got some man to bring him there, and he leaned heavy on his
cane, and kinder stiddied himself on it and offered this suggestion:

"How would it do to tie females up when they got to thinkin' they wuz equal
to men, halter 'em, rope 'em, and let 'em see if they wuz?"

But this idee wuz objected to for the same reason Josiah had advanced, as
Philander well said, "wimmen had got to go foot loose in order to do the
housework and cookin'."

Uncle Sime Bentley, who wuz awful indignant, said, "I motion that men shall
take away all the rights that wimmen have now, turn 'em out of the meetin'
house, and grange."

But before he'd hardly got the words out of his mouth, seven of the members
riz up and as many as five spoke out to once with different exclamations:

"That won't do! we can't do that! Who'll do all the work! Who'll git up
grange banquets and rummage sales, and paper and paint and put down carpets
in the meetin' house, and git up socials and entertainments to help pay the
minister's salary, and carry on the Sunday School? and tend to its picnics
and suppers, and take care of the children? We can't do this, much as we'd
love to."

One horsey, sporty member, also under the influence of liquor, riz up, and
made a feeble motion, "Spozin' we give wimmen liberty enough to work, leave
'em hand and foot loose, and sort o' muzzle 'em so they can't talk."

This seemed to be very favorably received, 'specially by the married
members, and the secretary wuz jest about to record it in the moments as
a scheme worth tryin', when old Doctor Nugent got up, and sez in a firm,
decided way:

"Wimmen cannot be kept from talking without endangerin' her life; as a
medical expert I object to this motion."

"How would you put the objection?" sez the secretary.

"On the ground of cruelty to animals," sez the doctor.

A fat Englishman who had took the widder Shelmadine's farm on shares, says,
"I 'old with Brother Josiah Hallen's hargument. As the father of nine young
children and thirty cows to milk with my wife's 'elp, I 'old she musn't be
kep' from work, but h'I propose if we can't do anything else that a card
of sympathy be sent to hold Hengland from the Creation Searchin' Society
of America, tellin' 'em 'ow our 'earts bleeds for the men's sufferin' and
'ardships in 'avin' to leave their hoccupations to beat and 'aul round and
drive females to jails, and feed 'em with rubber hose through their noses
to keep 'em from starvin' to death for what they call their principles."

This motion wuz carried unanimously.

But here an old man, who had jest dropped in and who wuz kinder deef and
slow-witted, asked, "What it is about anyway? what do the wimmen ask for
when they are pounded and jailed and starved?"

Hank Yerden, whose wife is a Suffragist, and who is mistrusted to have a
leanin' that way himself, answered him, "Oh, they wanted the lawmakers to
read their petitions asking for the rights of ordinary citizens. They said
as long as their property wuz taxed they had the right of representation.
And as long as the law punished wimmen equally with men, they had a right
to help make that law, and as long as men claimed wimmen's place wuz home,
they wanted the right to guard that home. And as long as they brought
children into the world they wanted the right to protect 'em. And when the
lawmakers wouldn't hear a word they said, and beat 'em and drove 'em round
and jailed 'em, they got mad as hens, and are actin' like furiation and
wild cats. But claim that civil rights wuz never give to any class without
warfare."

"Heavens! what doin's!" sez old Zephaniah Beezum, "what is the world comin'
to!" "Angle worms will be risin' up next and demandin' to not be trod on."
Sez he, "I have studied the subject on every side, and I claim the best
way to deal with them militant females is to banish 'em to some barren
wilderness, some foreign desert where they can meditate on their crimes,
and not bother men."

This idee wuz received favorably by most of the members, but others
differed and showed the weak p'ints in it, and it wuz gin up.

Well, at ten P.M., the Creation Searchers gin up after arguin' pro and con,
con and pro, that they could not see any way out of the matter, they could
not tell what to do with the wimmen without danger and trouble to the male
sect.

They looked dretful dejected and onhappy as they come to this conclusion,
my pardner looked as if he wuz most ready to bust out cryin'. And as I
looked on his beloved linement I forgot everything else and onbeknown to me
I leaned over the railin' and sez:

"Here is sunthin' that no one has seemed to think on at home or abroad. How
would it work to stop the trouble by givin' the wimmen the rights they ask
for, the rights of any other citizen?"

I don't spoze there will ever be such another commotion and upheaval in
Jonesville till Michael blows his last trump as follered my speech. Knowin'
wimmen wuz kep' from the meetin', some on 'em thought it wuz a voice from
another spear. Them wuz the skairt and horrow struck ones, and them that
thought it wuz a earthly woman's voice wuz so mad that they wuz by the side
of themselves and carried on fearful. But when they searched the gallery
for wimmen or ghosts, nothin' wuz found, for Philander's wife and I had
scooted acrost lots and wuz to home a-knittin' before the men got there.

And I d'no as anybody but Philander to this day knows what, or who it wuz.

And I d'no as my idee will be follered, but I believe it is the best way
out on't for men and wimmen both, and would stop the mad doin's of the
English Suffragettes, which I don't approve of, no indeed! much as I
sympathize with the justice of their cause.










End of Project Gutenberg's Samantha on the Woman Question, by Marietta Holley

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SAMANTHA ON THE WOMAN QUESTION ***

***** This file should be named 7833.txt or 7833.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/7/8/3/7833/

Produced by Eric Eldred, William Flis and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
