The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Dreamers, by John Kendrick Bangs

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Dreamers
       A Club

Author: John Kendrick Bangs

Illustrator: Edward Penfield

Release Date: February 23, 2011 [EBook #35374]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DREAMERS ***




Produced by Steve Read, Suzanne Shell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









  [Illustration: Cronkey Gudehart
                        [Page 103
  THE FIRST GLOOMSTER]




  THE DREAMERS
  A Club. _Being a More or Less Faithful
  Account of the Literary Exercises
  of the First Regular Meeting
  of that Organization, Reported by_
  JOHN KENDRICK BANGS
  _WITH ILLUSTRATIONS_
  _By_ EDWARD PENFIELD

  [Illustration]

  NEW YORK AND LONDON
  HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS
  1899




  BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

     PEEPS AT PEOPLE. Passages from the Writings of Anne Warrington
     Witherup, Journalist. Illustrated by EDWARD PENFIELD. 16mo, Cloth,
     Ornamental, Uncut Edges and Colored Top, $1.25.

     GHOSTS I HAVE MET, AND SOME OTHERS. With Illustrations by NEWELL,
     FROST, and RICHARDS. 16mo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1.25.

     A HOUSE-BOAT ON THE STYX. Being Some Account of the Divers Doings
     of the Associated Shades. Illustrated by PETER NEWELL. 16mo, Cloth,
     Ornamental, $1.25.

     THE PURSUIT OF THE HOUSE-BOAT. Being Some Further Account of the
     Doings of the Associated Shades, under the Leadership of Sherlock
     Holmes, Esq. Illustrated by PETER NEWELL. 16mo, Cloth, Ornamental,
     $1.25.

     PASTE JEWELS. Being Seven Tales of Domestic Woe. 16mo, Cloth,
     Ornamental $1.00.

     THE BICYCLERS, AND THREE OTHER FARCES. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth,
     Ornamental, $1.25.

     A REBELLIOUS HEROINE. A Story. Illustrated by W. T. SMEDLEY. 16mo,
     Cloth, Ornamental, Uncut Edges, $1.25.

     MR. BONAPARTE OF CORSICA. Illustrated by H. W. MCVICKAR. 16mo,
     Cloth, Ornamental, $1.25.

     THE WATER GHOST, AND OTHERS. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, Ornamental,
     $1.25.

     THE IDIOT. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1.00.

     THREE WEEKS IN POLITICS. Illustrated. 32mo, Cloth, Ornamental, 50
     cents.

     COFFEE AND REPARTEE. Illustrated. 32mo, Cloth, Ornamental, 50
     cents.

  NEW YORK AND LONDON:
  HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS.


  Copyright, 1899, by HARPER & BROTHERS.
  _All rights reserved._




  Dedicated
  WITH ALL
  DUE RESPECT AND PROPER APOLOGIES

  TO

  RICHARD HARDING DAVIS
  JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY
  WILLIAM DEAN HOWELLS
  RUDYARD KIPLING
  HALL CAINE
  SUNDRY MAGAZINE POETS
  ANTHONY HOPE
  THE WAR CORRESPONDENTS
  A. CONAN DOYLE
  IAN MACLAREN
  JAMES M. BARRIE
  THE INVOLVULAR CLUB
  AND
  MR. DOOLEY




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                                         PAGE
     I. THE IDEA                                                     1
    II. IN WHICH THOMAS SNOBBE, ESQ., OF YONKERS, UNFOLDS A TALE    21
   III. IN WHICH A MINCE-PIE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR A REMARKABLE
            COINCIDENCE                                             44
    IV. BEING THE CONTRIBUTION OF MR. BEDFORD PARKE                 59
     V. THE SALVATION OF FINDLAYSON                                 80
    VI. IN WHICH HARRY SNOBBE RECITES A TALE OF GLOOM              102
   VII. THE DREAMERS DISCUSS A MAGAZINE POEM                       123
  VIII. DOLLY VISITS CHICAGO                                       142
    IX. IN WHICH YELLOW JOURNALISM CREEPS IN                       163
     X. THE MYSTERY OF PINKHAM'S DIAMOND STUD                      185
    XI. LANG TAMMAS AND DRUMSHEUGH SWEAR OFF                       207
   XII. CONCLUSION--LIKEWISE MR. BILLY JONES                       228




ILLUSTRATIONS


                                                                  PAGE
  THE FIRST GLOOMSTER                                   _Frontispiece_
  DISCUSSING THE IDEA                                                3
  AND SO TO DREAM                                                   17
  THE DREAMERS DINE                                                 25
  "'REMEMBER TO BE BRAVE'"                                          35
  "'ELEANOR HUYLER HAS DISAPPEARED'"                                39
  "WRIT A POME ABOUT A KID"                                         47
  "I BOUGHT A BOOK OF VERSE"                                        51
  "IT FILLED ME WITH DISMAY"                                        55
  "'COME IN'"                                                       61
  MARY                                                              65
  EDWARDS REBELS                                                    71
  THE VICEROY EXAMINES HIS RUINED SMILE                             85
  THEY GAVE HIM _PUNCH_                                             89
  THE DONKEY ENGINE CALLS ON FINDLAYSON                             93
  THE END OF THE GLOOMSTER                                         109
  WISHED HER A HAPPY NEW-YEAR                                      117
  "'O ARGENT-BROWED SARCOPHAGUS'"                                  125
  "_SARCOPHAGUSTUS_"                                               131
  MR. BILLY JONES                                                  137
  "'I MUST SEE HIM,' SAID DOLLY"                                   145
  "'KAPE YOUR HOOSBAND HOME'"                                      155
  MIXING ILLUSTRATIONS                                             159
  THE SHIP'S BARBER AT WORK                                        167
  A CLEVER CAROM                                                   177
  SINKING THE _CASTILLA_                                           181
  THE LAMP-POSTS WERE TWISTED                                      191
  HOLMES IN DISGUISE INTERVIEWS WATTLES                            199
  "'YOU DID TOO!' SAID POLLY"                                      203
  "'HOOT MON!'"                                                    209
  "A SWEET-FACED NURSE APPEARED"                                   213
  TAMMAS MEETS DRUMSHEUGH                                          221
  MR. JONES BEGINS                                                 231
  HE DID NOT SEE                                                   243
  THE STENOGRAPHER SLEPT                                           247




[Illustration: The Dreamers: A Club]




THE DREAMERS: A CLUB




I

THE IDEA


The idea was certainly an original one. It was Bedford Parke who
suggested it to Tenafly Paterson, and Tenafly was so pleased with it
that he in turn unfolded it in detail to his friend Dobbs Ferry,
claiming its inception as his very own. Dobbs was so extremely
enthusiastic about it that he invited Tenafly to a luncheon at the
Waldoria to talk over the possibilities of putting the plan into
practical operation, and so extract from it whatever of excellence it
might ultimately be found to contain.

"As yet it is only an idea, you know," said Dobbs; "and if you have ever
had any experience with ideas, Tenny, you are probably aware that,
unless reduced to a practical basis, an idea is of no more value than a
theory."

"True," Tenafly replied. "I can demonstrate that in five minutes at the
Waldoria. For instance, you see, Dobbsy, I have an idea that I am as
hungry as a bear, but as yet it is only a theory, from which I derive no
substantial benefit. Place a portion of whitebait, a filet Bearnaise,
and a quart of Sauterne before me, and--"

"I see," said Dobbsy. "Come along."

[Illustration: DISCUSSING THE IDEA]

And they went; and the result of that luncheon at the Waldoria was the
formation of "The Dreamers: A Club." The colon was Dobbs Ferry's
suggestion. The objects of the club were literary, and Dobbs, who was an
observant young man, had noticed that the use of the colon in these days
of unregenerate punctuation was confined almost entirely to the literary
contingent and its camp-followers. With small poets particularly was
it in vogue, and Dobbs--who, by-the-way, had written some very dainty
French poems to the various _fianc√©es_ with whom his career had been
checkered--had a sort of vague idea that if his brokerage business would
permit him to take the necessary time for it he might become famous as a
small poet himself. The French poems and his passion for the colon,
combined with an exquisite chirography which he had assiduously
cultivated, all contributed to assure him that it was only lack of time
that kept him in the ranks of the mute, inglorious Herricks.

As formulated by Dobbs and Tenafly, then, Bedford Parke's suggestion
that a Dreamers' Club be formed was amplified into this: Thirteen choice
spirits, consisting of Dobbs, Tenafly, Bedford Parke, Greenwich Place,
Hudson Rivers of Hastings, Monty St. Vincent, Fulton Streete, Berkeley
Hights, Haarlem Bridge, the three Snobbes of Yonkers--Tom, Dick, and
Harry--and Billy Jones of the _Weekly Oracle_, were to form themselves
into an association which should endeavor to extract whatever latent
literary talent the thirteen members might have within them. It was a
generally accepted fact, Bedford Parke had said, that all literature,
not even excepting history, was based upon the imagination. Many of the
masterpieces of fiction had their basis in actual dreams, and, when they
were not founded on such, might in every case be said to be directly
attributable to what might properly be called waking dreams. It was the
misfortune of the thirteen gentlemen who were expected to join this
association that the business and social engagements of all, with the
possible exception of Billy Jones of the _Weekly Oracle_, were such as
to prevent their indulgence in these waking dreams, dreams which should
tend to lower the colors of Howells before those of Tenafly Paterson,
and cause the memory of Hawthorne to wither away before the scorching
rays of that rising sun of genius, Tom Snobbe of Yonkers. Snobbe,
by-the-way, must have inherited literary ability from his father, who
had once edited a church-fair paper which ran through six editions in
one week--one edition a day for each day of the fair--adding an
unreceipted printer's bill for eighty-seven dollars to the proceeds to
be divided among the heathen of Central Africa.

"It's a well-known fact," said Bedford--"a sad fact, but still a
fact--that if Poe had not been a hard drinker he never would have
amounted to a row of beans as a writer. His dreams were induced--and I
say, what's the matter with our inducing dreams and then putting 'em
down?"

That was the scheme in a nutshell--to induce dreams and put them down.
The receipt was a simple one. The club was to meet once a month, and eat
and drink "such stuff as dreams are made of"; the meeting was then to
adjourn, the members going immediately home and to bed; the dreams of
each were to be carefully noted in their every detail, and at the
following meeting were to be unfolded such soul-harrowing tales as
might with propriety be based thereon. An important part of the
programme was a stenographer, whose duty it would be to take down the
stories as they were told and put them in type-written form, which Dobbs
was sure he had heard an editor say was one of the first steps towards a
favorable consideration by professional readers of the manuscripts of
the ambitious.

"I am told," said he, "that many a truly meritorious production has gone
unpublished for years because the labor of deciphering the author's
handwriting proved too much for the reader's endurance--and it is very
natural that it should be so. A professional reader is, after all, only
human, and when to the responsibilities of his office is added the
wearisome task of wading through a Spencerian morass after the
will-o'-wisp of an idea, I don't blame him for getting impatient. Why, I
saw the original manuscript of one of Charles Dickens's novels once, and
I don't see how any one knew it was good enough to publish until it got
into print!"

"That's simply a proof of what I've always said," observed one of the
Snobbe boys. "If Charles Dickens's works had been written by me, no one
would ever have published them."

"I haven't a doubt of it," returned Billy Jones of the _Oracle_, dryly.
"Why, Snobbey, my boy, I believe if you had written the plays of
Shakespeare they'd have been forgotten ages ago!"

"So do I," returned Snobbe, innocently. "This is a queer world."

"The stenographer will save us a great deal of trouble," said Bedford.
"The hard part of literary work is, after all, the labor of production
in a manual sense. These real geniuses don't have to think. Their ideas
come to them, and they let 'em develop themselves. In realistic writing,
as I understand it, the author sits down with his pen in his hand and
his characters in his mind's eye, and they simply run along, and he does
the private-detective act--follows after them and jots down all they
do. In imaginative writing it's done the same way. The characters of
these ridiculous beings we read of are quite as real to the imaginative
writer as the characters of the realist are to the latter, and they do
supernatural things naturally. So you see these things require very
little intellectual labor. It's merely the drudgery of chasing a
commonplace or supernatural set of characters about the world in order
to get 400 pages full of reading-matter about 'em that makes the
literary profession a laborious one. Our stenographer will enable us to
avoid all this. There isn't a man of us but can talk as easily as he can
fall off a log, and a tale once told at our dinners becomes in the
telling a bit of writing."

"But, my dear Parke," said Billy Jones of the _Oracle_, who had been a
"literary journalist," as his fond grandmother called it, for some
years, "a story told is hardly likely to be in the form calculated to
become literature."

"That's just what we want you for, Billy," Bedford replied. "You know
how to give a thing that last finishing-touch which will make it go,
where otherwise it might forever remain a fixture in the author's
pigeon-hole. When our stories are told and type-written, we want you to
go over them, correct the type-writer's spelling, and make whatever
alterations you may think, after consulting with us, to be necessary.
Then, if the tales are ever published as a collection, you can have your
name on the title-page as editor."

"Thanks," answered Billy, gratefully. "I shall be charmed."

And then he hurried back to his apartments, and threw himself on his bed
in a paroxysm of laughter which seemed never-ending, but which in
reality did not last more than three hours at the most.

Hudson Rivers of Hastings, when the idea was suggested to him, was the
most enthusiastic of all--so enthusiastic that the Snobbe boys thought
that, in their own parlance, he ought to be "called down."

"It's bad form to go crazy over an idea," they said. "If Huddy's going
to behave this way about it, he ought to be kept out altogether. It is
all very well to experience emotions, but no well-bred person ever shows
them--that is, not in Yonkers."

"Ah, but you don't understand Huddy," said Tenafly Paterson. "Huddy has
two great ambitions in this life. One is to get into the Authors' Club,
and the other is to marry a certain young woman whose home is in Boston
and whose ambitions are Bostonian. To appear before the world as a
writer, which the Dreamers will give him a chance to do at small
expense, will help him on to the realization of his most cherished
hopes; in fact, Huddy told me that he thought we ought to publish the
proceedings of the club at least four times a year, so establishing a
quarterly magazine, to which we shall all be regular contributors. He
thinks it will pay for itself, and knows it will make us all famous,
because Billy Jones is certain to see that everything that goes out is
first chop, and I'm inclined to believe Huddy is right. The continual
drip, drip, drip of a drop of water on a stone will gradually wear away
the stone, and, by Jove! before we know it, by constant hammering away
at this dream scheme of ours we'll gain a position that won't be
altogether unenviable."

"That's so," said Billy. "I wouldn't wonder if with the constant drip,
drip, drip of your drops of ink and inspiration you could wear the
public out in a very little while. The only troublesome thing will be in
getting a publisher for your quarterly."

"I haven't any idea that we want a publisher," said Bedford Parke.
"We've got capital enough among ourselves to bring the thing out, and so
I say, what's the use of letting anybody else in on the profits? A
publisher wouldn't give us more than ten per cent. in royalties. If we
publish it ourselves we'll get the whole thing."

"Yes," assented Tom Snobbe, "and, what's more, it will have a higher
tone to it if we can say on the title-page 'Privately printed,' eh?
That'll make everybody in society want one for his library, and
everybody not in society will be crazy to get it because it's
aristocratic all through."

"I hadn't thought of that," said Billy Jones. "I've no doubt you are
right, only I'd think you'd sell more copies if you'd also put on the
title-page 'For circulation among the √©lite only.' Then every man,
woman, or child who happened to get a copy would take pride in showing
it to others, who would immediately send for it, because not having it
would seem to indicate that one was not in the swim."

Nor were the others to whom the proposition was advanced any less
desirous to take part. They saw, one and all, opportunities for a very
desirable distinction through the medium of the Dreamers, and within two
weeks of the original formation of the plan the club was definitely
organized. Physicians were consulted by the various members as to what
edibles contained the properties most likely to produce dreams of the
nature desired, and at the organization meeting all but Billy Jones were
well stocked with suggestions for the inauguration dinner. Hudson Rivers
was of the opinion that there should be six courses at that dinner, each
one of Welsh-rabbit, but varying in form, such as Welsh-rabbit pur√©e,
for instance, in which the cheese should have the consistency of
pea-soup rather than of leather; such as Welsh-rabbit p√¢t√©, in which the
cheese should rest within walls of pastry instead of lying quiescent and
inviting like a yellow mantle upon a piece of toast; then a Welsh-rabbit
roast; and so on all through the banquet, rabbit upon rabbit, the whole
washed down with the accepted wines of the ordinary banquet, which
experience had taught them were likely in themselves to assist in the
work of dream-making.

[Illustration: AND SO TO DREAM]

Monty St. Vincent observed that he had no doubt that the Welsh-rabbit
dinner would work wonders, but he confessed his inability to see any
reason why the club should begin its labors by committing suicide. He
added that, for his part, he would not eat six Welsh rabbits at one
sitting if he was sure of Shakespeare's immortality as his reward,
because, however attractive immortality was, he preferred mortality in
the flesh to the other in the abstract. If the gentlemen would begin the
meal with a grilled lobster apiece, he suggested, going thence by an
easy stage to a devilled bird, rounding up with a "slip-on"--which, in
brief, is a piece of mince-pie smothered in a blanket of molten
cheese--he was ready to take the plunge, but further than this he would
not go. The other members were disposed to agree with Monty. They
thought the idea of eating six Welsh rabbits in a single evening was
preposterous, and that in making such a suggestion Huddy was inspired by
one of but two possible motives--that he wished to leap to the foremost
position in imaginative literature at one bound, or else was prompted,
by jealousy of what the others might do, to wish to kill the club at its
very start. Huddy denied these aspersions upon his motives with
vociferous indignation, and to show his sincerity readily acquiesced in
the adoption of Monty St. Vincent's menu as already outlined.

The date of the dinner was set, Billy Jones was made master of
ceremonies, the dinner was ordered, and eaten amid scenes of such
revelry as was possible in the presence of the Snobbe boys, to whom
anything in the way of unrestrained enjoyment was a bore and bad form,
and at its conclusion the revellers went straight home to bed and to
dream.

Two weeks later they met again over viands of a more digestible nature
than those which lent interest to the first dinner, and told the tales
which follow. And I desire to add here that my report of this dinner and
the literature there produced is based entirely upon the stenographer's
notes, coupled with additional information of an interesting kind
furnished me by my friend William Jones, Esq., Third Assistant Exchange
Editor of _The Weekly Oracle, a Journal of To-day, Yesterday, and
To-morrow_.




II

IN WHICH THOMAS SNOBBE, ESQ., OF YONKERS, UNFOLDS A TALE


The second dinner of the Dreamers had been served, all but the coffee,
when Mr. Billy Jones, of the _Oracle_, rapped upon the table with a
dessert-spoon and called the members to order.

"Gentlemen," said he, when all was quiet, "we have reached the crucial
crisis of our club career. We have eaten the stuff of which our dreams
were to be made, and from what I can gather from the reports of those
who are now seated about this festal board--and I am delighted to note
that the full membership of our organization is here represented--there
is not a single one of you who is unprepared for the work we have in
hand, and, as master of ceremonies, it becomes my pleasant duty to
inform you that the hour has arrived at which it behooveth us to begin
the narration of those tales which--of those tales which I am
certain--yes, gentlemen, very certain--will cause the unlaid ghosts of
those masters of the story-tellers' art--"

"Is this a continued story Billy is giving us?" observed Tenafly
Paterson.

"No," replied Bedford Parke, with a laugh; "it is only a life sentence."

"Get him to commute it!" ejaculated Hudson Rivers.

"Order, gentlemen, order!" cried the master of ceremonies, again rapping
upon the table. "The members will kindly not interrupt the speaker. As I
was saying, gentlemen," he continued, "we are now to listen to the
narration of tales which I am convinced will cause the unlaid ghosts of
the past grand masters of the story-tellers' art to gnash their spirit
teeth with anguish for that they in life failed to realize the
opportunities that were theirs in not having told the tales to which we
are about to listen, and over which, when published, the leading living
literary lights will writhe in jealousy."

When the applause which greeted these remarks had subsided, Mr. Jones
resumed:

"That there may be no question of precedence among the gifted persons
from whom we are now to hear, I have provided myself with a small
leathern bottle, such as is to be seen in most billiard-parlors, within
which I have placed twelve numbered ivory balls. These I will now
proceed to distribute among you. When you receive them, I request that
you immediately return them to me, that I may arrange the programme
according to your respective numbers."

Mr. Jones thereupon distributed the ivory balls, and when the returns
had been made, according to his request, he again rose to his feet and
announced that to Mr. Thomas Snobbe, of Yonkers, had fallen the lot of
telling the first story, adding that he took great pleasure in the
slightly supererogative task that devolved upon him of presenting Mr.
Snobbe to his audience. Mr. Snobbe's health was drunk vociferously,
after which, the stenographer having announced himself as ready to
begin, the distinguished son of Yonkers arose and told the following
story, which he called

  VAN SQUIBBER'S FAILURE

[Illustration: THE DREAMERS DINE]

You can't always tell what kind of a day you are going to have in town
in October just because you happen to have been in town on previous
October days, and Van Squibber, for that reason, was not surprised when
his man, on waking him, informed him that it was cold out. Even if he
had been surprised he would not have shown it, for fear of demoralizing
his man by setting him a bad example. "We must take things as they
come," Van Squibber had said to the fellow when he engaged him, "and I
shall expect you to be ready always for any emergency that may arise.
If on waking in the morning I call for a camel's-hair shawl and a bottle
of Nepaul pepper, it will be your duty to see that I get them without
manifesting the slightest surprise or asking any questions. Here is your
next year's salary in advance. Get my Melton overcoat and my box, and
have them at the Rahway station at 7.15 to-morrow morning. If I am not
there, don't wait for me, but come back here and boil my egg at once."

This small bit of a lecture had had its effect on the man, to whom
thenceforth nothing was impossible; indeed, upon this very occasion he
demonstrated to his employer his sterling worth, for when, on looking
over Van Squibber's wardrobe, he discovered that his master had no
Melton overcoat, he telegraphed to his tailor's and had one made from
his previous measure in time to have it with Van Squibber's box at the
Rahway station at the stipulated hour the following morning. Of course
Van Squibber was not there. He had instructed his man as he had simply
to test him, and, furthermore, the egg was boiled to perfection. The
test cost Van Squibber about $150, but it was successful, and it was
really worth the money to know that his man was all that he should be.

"He's not half bad," said Van Squibber, as he cracked the egg.

"It's wintry," said Van Squibber's man on the morning of the 5th of
October.

"Well," Van Squibber said, sleepily, "what of that? You have your
instructions as to the bodily temperature I desire to maintain. Select
my clothing, as usual--and mark you, man, yesterday was springy, and you
let me go to the club in summery attire. I was two and a half degrees
too warm. You are getting careless. What are my engagements to-day?"

"University settlement at eleven, luncheon at the Actors' at one, drive
with the cynical Miss Netherwood at three, five-o'clock tea at four--"

"What?" cried Van Squibber, sharply.

"At fuf--five, I should say, sir," stammered the embarrassed man.

"Thought so," said Van Squibber. "Proceed, and be more careful. The very
idea of five-o'clock tea at four is shocking."

"Dinner with the Austrian ambassador at eight, opera at eleven--"

"In October? Opera?" cried Van Squibber.

"Comic," said the man. "It is Flopper's last night, sir, and you are to
ring down the curtain."

"True," said Van Squibber, meditatively--"true; I'd forgotten. And
then?"

"At midnight you are to meet Red Mike at Cherry Street and Broadway to
accompany him to see how he robs national banks, for the _Sunday
Whirald_."

"What bank is it to be?"

"The Seventeenth National."

"Gad!" cried Van Squibber, "that's hard luck. It's my bank. Wire Red
Mike and ask him to make it the Sixteenth National, at once. Bring me my
smoking-jacket and a boiled soda mint drop. I don't care for any
breakfast this morning. And, by-the-way, I feel a little chilly. Take a
quinine pill for me."

"Your egg is ready, sir," said the man, tremulously.

"Eat it," said Van Squibber, tersely, "and deduct the Caf√© Savarin price
of a boiled egg from your salary. How often must I tell you not to have
my breakfast boiled until I am boil--I mean ready until I am ready for
it?"

The man departed silently, and Van Squibber turned over and went to
sleep.

An hour later, having waited for his soda mint drop as long as his
dignity would permit, Van Squibber arose and dressed and went for a walk
in Central Park. It was eccentric of him to do this, but he did it
nevertheless.

"How Travers would laugh if he saw me walking in Central Park!" he
thought. "He'd probably ask me when I'd come over from Germany," he
added. And then, looking ahead, a thing Van Squibber rarely did,
by-the-way--for you can't always tell by looking ahead what may happen
to you--his eyes were confronted by a more or less familiar back.

"Dear me!" he said. "If that isn't Eleanor Huyler's back, whose back is
it, by Jove?"

Insensibly Van Squibber quickened his pace. This was also a thing he
rarely did. "Haste is bad form," he had once said to Travers, who, on
leaving Delmonico's at 7.20, seemed anxious to catch the 7.10 train for
Riverdale. Insensibly quickening his pace, he soon found himself beside
the owner of the back, and, as his premonitions had told him, it was
Eleanor Huyler.

"Good-morning," he said.

"Why, Mr. Van Squibber!" she replied, with a terrified smile. "You
here?"

"Well," returned Van Squibber, not anxious to commit himself, "I think
so, though I assure you, Miss Huyler, I am not at all certain. I seem to
be here, but I must confess I am not quite myself this morning. My
man--"

"Yes--I know," returned the girl, hastily. "I've heard of him. He is
your _alter ego_."

"I had not noticed it," said Van Squibber, somewhat nonplussed. "I think
he is English, though he may be Italian, as you suggest. But," he added,
to change the subject, "you seem disturbed. Your smile is a terrified
smile, as has been already noted."

"It is," said Miss Huyler, looking anxiously about her.

"And may I ask why?" asked Van Squibber, politely--for to do things
politely was Van Squibber's ambition.

"I--I--well, really, Mr. Van Squibber," the girl replied, "I am always
anxious when you are about. The fact is, you know, the things that
happen when you are around are always so very extraordinary. I came here
for a quiet walk, but now that you have appeared I am quite certain that
something dramatic is about to occur. You see--you--you have turned up
so often at the--what I may properly call, I think, the nick of time,
and so rarely at any other time, that I feel as though some disaster
were impending which you alone can avert."

"And what then?" said Van Squibber, proudly. "If I am here, what bodes
disaster?"

"That is the question I am asking myself," returned Miss Huyler, whose
growing anxiety was more or less painful to witness. "Can your luck hold
out? Will your ability as an averter of danger hold out? In short, Mr.
Van Squibber, are you infallible?"

The question came to Van Squibber like a flash of lightning out of a
clear sky. It was too pertinent. Had he not often wondered himself as to
his infallibility? Had he not only the day before said to Travers, "You
can't always tell in advance just how a thing you are going into may
turn out, even though you have been through that thing many times, and
think you do."

"I do lead a dramatic life," he said, quietly, hoping by a show of
serenity to reassure her. "But," he added, proudly, "I am, after all,
Van Squibber; I am here to do whatever is sent me to do. I am not a
fatalist, but I regard myself as the chosen instrument of fate--or
something. So far, I have not failed. On the basis of averages, I am not
likely to fail now. Fate, or something, has chosen me to succeed."

"That is true," said Eleanor--"quite true; but there are exceptions to
all rules, and I would rather you would fail to rescue some other girl
from a position of peril than myself."

That Miss Huyler's words were prophetic, the unhappy Van Squibber was to
realize, and that soon, for almost as they spoke the cheeks of both were
blanched by a dreadful roar in the bushes beside the path upon which
they walked.

"Shall I leave you?" asked Van Squibber, politely.

[Illustration: "'REMEMBER TO BE BRAVE'"]

"Not now--oh, not now, I beg!" cried Miss Huyler. "It is too late. The
catastrophe is imminent. You should have gone before the author
brought it on. Finding me defenceless and you gone, he might have spared
me. As it is, you are here, and must fulfil your destiny."

"Very well," returned Van Squibber. "That being so, I will see what this
roaring is. If it is a child endeavoring to frighten you, I shall get
his address and have my man chastise his father, for I could never
strike a child; but if it is a lion, as I fear, I shall do what seems
best under the circumstances. I have been told, Miss Huyler, that a show
of bravery awes a wild beast, while a manifestation of cowardice causes
him to spring at once upon the coward. Therefore, if it be a lion, do
you walk boldly up to him and evince a cool head, while I divert his
attention from you by running away. In this way you, at least, will be
saved."

"Noble fellow!" thought Eleanor to herself. "If he were to ask me, I
think I might marry him."

Meanwhile Van Squibber had investigated, and was horror-struck to find
his misgivings entirely too well founded. It was the lion from the park
menagerie that had escaped, and was now waiting in ambush to pounce upon
the chance pedestrian.

"Remember, Eleanor," he cried, forgetting for the moment that he had
never called her by any but her last name with its formal
prefix--"remember to be brave. That will awe him, and then when he sees
me running he will pursue me."

[Illustration: "'ELEANOR HUYLER HAS DISAPPEARED'"]

Removing his shoes, Van Squibber, with a cry which brought the hungry
beast bounding out into the path, started on a dead run, while Miss
Huyler, full of confidence that the story would end happily whatever she
might do, walked boldly up to the tawny creature, wondering much,
however, why her rescuer had removed his shoes. It was strange that,
knowing Van Squibber as well as she did, she did not at once perceive
his motive in declining to run in walking-shoes, but in moments of peril
we are all excusable for our vagaries of thought! You never can tell,
when you are in danger, what may happen next, for if you could you
would know how it is all going to turn out; but as it is, mental
disturbance is quite to be expected.

For once Van Squibber failed. He ran fast enough and betrayed enough
cowardice to attract the attention of ten lions, but this special lion,
by some fearful idiosyncrasy of fate, which you never can count on, was
not to be deceived. With a louder roar than any he had given, he pounced
upon the brave woman, and in an instant she was no more. Van Squibber,
turning to see how matters stood, was just in time to witness the final
engulfment of the fair girl in the lion's jaws.

"Egad!" he cried. "_I have failed!_ And now what remains to be done?
Shall I return and fight the lion, or shall I keep on and go to the
club? If I kill the lion, people will know that I have been walking in
the park before breakfast. If I continue my present path and go to the
club, the fellows will all want to know what I mean by coming without
my shoes on. What a dilemma! Ah! I have it; I will go home."

And that is what Van Squibber did. He went back to his rooms in the
Quigmore at once, hastily undressed, and when, an hour later, his man
returned with the soda mint drop, he was sleeping peacefully.

That night he met Travers at the club reading the _Evening Moon_.

"Hello, Van!" said Travers. "Heard the news?"

"No. What?" asked Van Squibber, languidly.

"Eleanor Huyler has disappeared."

"By Jove!" cried Van Squibber, with well-feigned surprise. "I heard the
boys crying 'Extra,' but I never dreamed they would put out an extra for
her."

"They haven't," said Travers. "The extra's about the lion."

"Ah! And what's happened to the lion?" cried Van Squibber, nervously.

"He's dead. Got loose this morning early, and was found at ten o'clock
dying of indigestion. It is supposed he has devoured some man, name
unknown, for before his nose was an uneaten patent-leather pump, size
9-3/4 B, and in his throat was stuck the other, half eaten."

"Ha!" muttered Van Squibber, turning pale. "And they don't know whose
shoes they were?" he added, in a hoarse whisper.

"No," said Travers. "There's no clew, even."

Van Squibber breathed a sigh of relief.

"Robert!" he cried, addressing the waiter, "bring me a schooner of
absinthe, and ask Mr. Travers what he'll have." And then, turning, he
said, _sotto voce_, to himself, "Saved! And Eleanor is revenged. Van
Squibber may have failed, but his patent-leather pumps have conquered."




III

IN WHICH A MINCE-PIE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR A REMARKABLE COINCIDENCE


When Mr. Snobbe sat down after the narration of his story, there was a
thunderous outburst of applause. It was evident that the exciting
narrative had pleased his fellow-diners very much--as, indeed, it was
proper that it should, since it dealt in a veiled sort of way with
characters for whom all right-minded persons have not only a deep-seated
admiration, but a feeling of affection as well. They had, one and all,
in common with the unaffected portion of the reading community, a liking
for the wholesome and clean humor of Mr. Van Bibber, and the fact that
Snobbe's story suggested a certain original, even in a weak sort of
fashion, made them like it in spite of its shortcomings.

"Good work," cried Hudson Rivers. "Of course it's only gas in comparison
with the sun, but it gives light, and we like it."

"And it's wholly original, too, even though an imitation in manner. The
real Van Bibber never failed in anything he undertook," said Tenafly
Paterson. "I've often wished he might have, just once--it would have
made him seem more human--and for that reason I think Tom is entitled to
praise."

"I don't know about that," observed Monty St. Vincent. "Tom hadn't
anything to do with it--it was the dinner. Honor to whom honor is due,
say I. Praise the cook, or the caterer."

"That's the truth," put in Billie Jones. "Fact is, when this book of
ours comes out, I think, instead of putting our names on the title-page
as authors, the thing to do is to print the menu."

"You miss the point of this association," interjected Snobbe. "We
haven't banded ourselves together to immortalize a Welsh rabbit or a
mince-pie--nay, nor even a ruddy duck. It's our own glory we're after."

"That's it," cried Monty St. Vincent--"that's the beauty of it. The
scheme works two ways. If the stuff is good and there is glory in it,
we'll have the glory; but if it's bad, we'll blame the dinner. That's
what I like about it."

"It's a valuable plan from that point of view," said the presiding
officer. "And now, if the gentleman who secured the ball numbered two
will make himself known, we will proceed."

Hudson Rivers rose up. "I have number two," he said, "but I have nothing
to relate. The coffee I drank kept me awake all night, and when I
finally slept, along about six o'clock next morning, it was one of those
sweet, dreamless sleeps that we all love so much. I must therefore ask
to be excused."

[Illustration: "WRIT A POME ABOUT A KID"]

"But how shall you be represented in the book?" asked Mr. Harry Snobbe.

"He can do the table of contents," suggested St. Vincent.

"Or the fly-leaves," said Tenafly Paterson.

"No," said Huddy; "I shall ask that the pages I should have filled be
left blank. There is nothing helps a book so much as the leaving of
something to the reader's imagination. I heard a great critic say so
once. He said that was the strong point of the French writers, and he
added that Stockton's _Lady or the Tiger_ took hold because Stockton
didn't insist on telling everything."

"It's a good idea," said Mr. Jones. "I don't know but that if those
pages are left blank they'll be the most interesting in the book."

Mr. Rivers sat down with a smile of conscious pride, whereupon Mr.
Tenafly Paterson rose up.

"As I hold the number three ball, I will give you the fruits of my
dinner. I attribute the work which I am about to present to you to the
mince-pie. Personally, I am a great admirer of certain latter-day poets
who deal with the woes and joys of more or less commonplace persons. I
myself would rather read a sonnet to a snow-shovel than an ode to the
moon, but in my dream I seem to have conceived a violent hatred for
authors of homely verse, as you will note when I have finished reading
my dream-poem called 'Retribution.'"

"Great Scott!" murmured Billie Jones, with a deep-drawn sigh. "Poetry!
From Tenafly Paterson! Of all the afflictions of man, Job could have
known no worse."

"The poem reads as follows," continued Paterson, ignoring the chairman's
ill-timed remark:

[Illustration: "I BOUGHT A BOOK OF VERSE"]


RETRIBUTION

    Writ a pome about a kid.
    Finest one I ever did.

    Heaped it full o' sentiment--
    Very best I could invent.

    Talked about his little toys;
    How he played with other boys;

    How the beasts an' birdies all
    Come when little Jamie'd call.

    'N' 'en I took that little lad,
    Gave him fever, mighty bad.

    'N' 'en it sorter pleased my whim
    To have him die and bury him.

    It got printed, too, it did
    That small pome about the kid,

    In a paper in the West;
    Put ten dollars in my vest.

    Every pa an' ma about
    Cried like mighty--cried right out.

    I jess took each grandma's heart,
    Lammed and bruised it, made it smart;

    'N' everybody said o' me,
    "Finest pote we ever see,"

    'Cept one beggar, he got mad.
    Got worst lickin' ever had;

    Got my head atween his fists,
    Called me "Prince o' anarchists."

    Clipped me one behind my ear--
    Laid me up for 'most a year.

    "'Cause," he said, "my poetry
    'D made his wife an' mother cry;

    "'Twarn't no poet's bizness to
    Make the wimmin all boo-hoo."

    'N' 'at is why to-day, by Jings!
    I don't fool with hearts an' things.

    I don't care how high the bids,
    I've stopped scribblin' 'bout dead kids;

    'R if I haven't, kinder sorter
    Think 'at maybe p'r'aps I'd oughter.

The lines were received with hearty appreciation by all save Dobbs
Ferry, who looked a trifle gloomy.

[Illustration: "IT FILLED ME WITH DISMAY"]

"It is a strange thing," said the latter, "but that mince-pie affected
me in precisely the same way, as you will see for yourselves when I
read my contribution, which, holding ball number four as I do, I will
proceed to give you."

Mr. Ferry then read the following poem, which certainly did seem to
indicate that the man who prepared the fatal pie had certain literary
ideas which he mixed in with other ingredients:

    I bought a book of verse the other day,
    And when I read, it filled me with dismay.

    I wanted it to take home to my wife,
    To bring a bit of joy into her life;

    And I'd been told the author of those pomes
    Was called the laureate of simple homes.

    But, Jove! I read, and found it full of rhyme
    That kept my eyes a-filling all the time.

    One told about a pretty little miss
    Whose father had denied a simple kiss,

    And as she left, unhappy, full of cares,
    She fell and broke her neck upon the stairs.

    And then he wrote a lot of tearful lines
    Of children who had trouble with their spines;

    And 'stead of joys, he penned so many woes
    I sought him out and gave him curvature 'f the nose;

    And all the nation, witnessing his plight,
    Did crown me King, and cry, "It served him right."

"A remarkable coincidence," said Thomas Snobbe. "In fact, the
coincidence is rather more remarkable than the poetry."

"It certainly is," said Billie Jones; "but what a wonderfully suggestive
pie, considering that it was a mince!"

After which dictum the presiding officer called upon the holder of the
fifth ball, who turned out to be none other than Bedford Parke, who
blushingly rose up and delivered himself of what he called "The
Overcoat, a Magazine Farce."




IV

BEING THE CONTRIBUTION OF MR. BEDFORD PARKE

THE OVERCOAT

A FARCE. IN TWO SCENES


SCENE FIRST

_Time_: MORNING AT BOSTON

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "I think it will rain to-day, but there is no
need to worry about that. Robert has his umbrella and his mackintosh,
and I don't think he is idiotic enough to lend both of them. If he does,
he'll get wet, that's all." Mrs. Edwards is speaking to herself in the
sewing-room of the apartment occupied by herself and her husband in the
Hotel Hammingbell at Boston. It is not a large room, but cosey. A
frieze one foot deep runs about the ceiling, and there is a carpet on
the floor. Three pins are seen scattered about the room, in one corner
of which is a cane-bottomed chair holding across its back two black
vests and a cutaway coat. Mrs. Edwards sits before a Wilcox & Wilson
sewing-machine sewing a button on a light spring overcoat. The overcoat
has one outside and three inside pockets, and is single-breasted. "It is
curious," Mrs. Edwards continues, "what men will do with umbrellas and
mackintoshes on a rainy day. They lend them here and there, and the
worst part of it is they never remember where." A knock is heard at the
door. "Who's there?"

_Voice_ (_without_). "Me."

[Illustration: "'COME IN'"]

_Mrs. Robert Edwards_ (_with a nervous shudder_). "Come in." Enter Mary
the house-maid. She is becomingly attired in blue alpaca, with green
ribbons and puffed sleeves. She holds a feather duster in her right
hand, and in her left is a jar of Royal Worcester. "Mary," Mrs. Edwards
says, severely, "where are we at?"

_Mary_ (_meekly_). "Boston, ma'am."

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "South Boston or Boston proper?"

_Mary._ "Boston proper, ma'am."

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "Then when I say 'Who's there?' don't say 'Me.'
That manner of speaking may do at New York, Brooklyn, South Boston, or
Congress, but at Boston proper it is extremely gauche. 'I' is the word."

_Mary._ "Yes, ma'am; but you know, ma'am, I don't pretend to be
literary, ma'am, and so these little points baffles I very often." Mrs.
Edwards sighs, and, walking over to the window, looks out upon the
trolley-cars for ten minutes; then, picking up one of the pins from the
floor and putting it in a pink silk pin-cushion which stands next to an
alarm-clock on the mantel-piece, a marble affair with plain caryatids
and a brass fender around the hearth, she resumes her seat before the
sewing-machine, and threads a needle. Then--

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "Well, Mary, what do you want?"

_Mary._ "Please, Mrs. Edwards, the butcher is came, and he says they
have some very fine perairie-chickens to-day."

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "We don't want any prairie-chickens. The prairies
are so very vulgar. Tell him never to suggest such a thing again. Have
we any potatoes in the house?"

_Mary._ "There's three left, ma'am, and two slices of cold roast beef."

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "Then tell him to bring five more potatoes, a
steak, and--Was all the pickled salmon eaten?"

_Mary._ "All but the can, ma'am."

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "Well--Mr. Edwards is very fond of fish.
Tell him to bring two boxes of sardines and a bottle of anchovy paste."

_Mary._ "Very well, Mrs. Edwards."

[Illustration: MARY]

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "And--ah--Mary, tell him to bring some Brussels
sprouts for breakfast. What are you doing with that Worcester vase?"

_Mary._ "I was takin' it to cook, ma'am. Sure she broke the bean-pot
this mornin', and she wanted somethin' to cook the beans in."

_Mrs. Robert Edwards._ "Oh, I see. Well, take good care of it, Mary.
It's a rare piece. In fact, I think you'd better leave that here and
remove the rubber plant from the jardini√®re, and let Nora cook the beans
in that. Times are a little too hard to cook beans in Royal Worcester."

_Mary._ "Very well, ma'am." Mary goes out through the door. Mrs. Edwards
resumes her sewing. Fifteen minutes elapse, interrupted only by the
ticking of the alarm-clock and the occasional ringing of the bell on
passing trolley-cars. "If it does rain," Mrs. Edwards says at last, with
an anxious glance through the window, "I suppose Robert won't care about
going to see the pantomime to-night. It will be too bad if we don't go,
for this is the last night of the season, and I've been very anxious to
renew my acquaintance with 'Humpty Dumpty.' It is so very dramatic, and
I do so like dramatic things. Even when they happen in my own life I
like dramatic things. I'll never forget how I enjoyed the thrill that
came over me, even in my terror, that night last winter when the
trolley-car broke down in front of this house; and last summer, too,
when the oar-lock broke in our row-boat thirty-three feet from shore;
that was a situation that I enjoyed in spite of its peril. How people
can say that life is humdrum, I can't see. Exciting things, real
third-act situations, climaxes I might even call them, are always
happening in my life, and yet some novelists pretend that life is
humdrum just to excuse their books for being humdrum. I'd just like to
show these apostles of realism the diary I could have kept if I had
wanted to. Beginning with the fall my brother George had from the
hay-wagon, back in 1876, running down through my first meeting with
Robert, which was romantic enough--he paid my car-fare in from Brookline
the day I lost my pocket-book--even to yesterday, when an entire
stranger called me up on the telephone, my life has fairly bubbled with
dramatic situations that would take the humdrum theory and utterly
annihilate it." As Mrs. Edwards is speaking she is also sewing the
button already alluded to on Mr. Edwards's coat as described. "There,"
taking the last stitch in the coat, "that's done, and now I can go and
get ready for luncheon." She folds up the coat, glances at the clock,
and goes out. A half-hour elapses. The silence is broken only by
occasional noises from the street, the rattling of the wheels of a
herdic over the pavement, the voices of newsboys, and an occasional
strawberry-vender's cry. At the end of the half-hour the alarm-clock
goes off and the curtain falls.


SCENE SECOND

_Time_: EVENING AT BOSTON

The scene is laid in the drawing-room of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Edwards.
Mrs. Edwards is discovered reading _Pendennis_, and seems in imminent
danger of going to sleep over it. Mr. Edwards is stretched out upon the
sofa, quite asleep, with _Ivanhoe_ lying open upon his chest.
Twenty-five minutes elapse, when the door-bell rings.

_Mr. Edwards_ (_drowsily_). "Let me off at the next corner, conductor."

_Mrs. Edwards._ "Why, Robert--what nonsense you are talking!"

_Mr. Edwards_ (_rubbing his eyes and sitting up_). "Eh? What? Nonsense?
I talk nonsense? Really, my dear, that is a serious charge to bring
against one of the leading characters in a magazine farce. Wit, perhaps,
I may indulge in, but nonsense, never!"

[Illustration: EDWARDS REBELS]

_Mrs. Edwards._ "That is precisely what I complain about. The idea of
a well-established personage like yourself lying off on a sofa in his
own apartment and asking a conductor to let him off at the next corner!
It's--"

_Mr. Edwards._ "I didn't do anything of the sort."

_Mrs. Edwards._ "You did, too, Robert Edwards. And I can prove it. If
you will read back to the opening lines of this scene you will find that
I have spoken the truth--unless you forgot your lines. If you admit
that, I have nothing to say, but I will add that if you are going to
forget lines that give the key-note of the whole situation, you've got
no business in a farce. You'll make the whole thing fall flat some day,
and then you will be discharged."

_Mr. Edwards._ "Well, I wish I might be discharged; I'm tired of the
whole business. Anybody'd take me for an idiot, the way I have to go on.
Every bit of fun there is to be had in these farces is based upon some
predicament into which my idiocy or yours gets me. Are we idiots? I ask
you that. Are we? You may be, but, Mrs. Edwards, I am not. The idea of
my falling asleep over _Ivanhoe_! Would I do that if I had my way? Well,
I guess not! Would I even dare to say 'I guess not' in a magazine farce?
Again, I guess not. I'm going to write to the editor this very night,
and resign my situation. I want to be me. I don't want to be what some
author thinks I ought to be. Do you know what I think?"

_Mrs. Edwards_ (_warningly_). "Take care, Robert. Take care. You aren't
employed to think."

_Mr. Edwards._ "Precisely. That's what makes me so immortally mad. The
author doesn't give me time to think. I could think real thoughts if
he'd let me, but then! The curtain wouldn't stay up half a second if I
did that; and where would the farce be? The audience would go home
tired, because they wouldn't get their nap if the curtain was down. It's
hard luck; and as for me, I wouldn't keep the position a minute if I
could get anything else to do. Nobody'd give me work, now that I've been
made out to be such a confounded jackass. But let's talk of other
things."

_Mrs. Edwards._ "I'd love to, Robert--but we can't. There are no other
things in the farce. The Billises are coming."

_Mr. Edwards._ "Hang the Billises! Can't we ever have an evening to
ourselves?"

_Mrs. Edwards._ "How you do talk! How can we? There's got to be some
action in the farce, and it's the Billis family that draws out our
peculiarities."

_Mr. Edwards._ "Well, I'm going out, and you can receive the Billises,
and if it's necessary for me to say anything to give go to the play, you
can say it. I make you my proxy."

_Mrs. Edwards._ "It can't be done, Robert. They are here. The bell rang
ten minutes ago, and they ought to have got in here five minutes since.
You can't go out without meeting them in the wings--I mean the
hallway."

_Mr. Edwards._ "Lost!"

    _Enter_ MR. _and_ MRS. BILLIS.

_Billis._ "Ah, Edwards! Howdy do? Knew you were home. Saw light in--"

_Mrs. Billis._ "Don't rattle on so, my dear. Speak more slowly, or the
farce will be over before nine."

_Billis._ "I've got to say my lines, and I'm going to say them my way.
Ah, Edwards! Howdy do? Knew you were home. Saw light in window. Knew
your economical spirit. Said to myself must be home, else why gas? He
doesn't burn gas when he's out. Wake up--"

_Mr. Edwards._ "I'm not asleep. Fact is, I am going out."

_Mrs. Billis._ "Out?"

_Mrs. Edwards._ "Robert!"

_Mr. Edwards._ "That's what I said--out. _O-u-t._"

_Billis._ "Not bad idea. Go with you. Where to?"

_Mr. Edwards._ "Anywhere--to find a tragedy and take part in it. I'm
done farcing, my boy."

_Billis_ (_slapping_ Edwards _on back_). "Rah! my position exactly. I'm
sick of it too. Come ahead. I know that fellow Whoyt--he'll take us in
and give us a chance."

_Mrs. Billis._ "I've been afraid of this."

_Mrs. Edwards._ "Robert, consider your family."

_Mr. Edwards._ "I have; and if I'm to die respected and honored, if my
family is to have any regard for my memory, I've got to get out of
farcing. That's all. Did you sew the button on my overcoat?"

_Mrs. Edwards._ "I did. I'll go get it."

She goes out. Mrs. Billis throws herself sobbing on sofa. Billis dances
a jig. Forty minutes elapse, during which Billis's dance may be encored.
Enter Mrs. Edwards, triumphantly, with overcoat.

_Mrs. Edwards._ "There's your overcoat."

_Mr. Edwards._ "But--but the button isn't sewed on. I can't go out in
this."

_Mrs. Edwards._ "I knew it, Robert. I sewed the button on the wrong
coat."

Billis and Robert fall in a faint. Mrs. Billis rises and smiles,
grasping Mrs. Edwards's hand fervently.

_Mrs. Billis._ "Noble woman!"

_Mrs. Edwards._ "Yes; I've saved the farce."

_Mrs. Billis._ "You have. For, in spite of these--these strikers--these
theatric Debses, you--you got in the point! _The button was sewed on the
wrong overcoat!_"


CURTAIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

"When the farce was finished," said Mr. Parke, "and the applause which
greeted the fall of the curtain had subsided, I dreamed also the
following author's note: 'The elapses' in this farce may seem rather
long, but the reader must remember that it is the author's intention
that his farce, if acted, should last throughout a whole evening. If it
were not for the elapses the acting time would be scarcely longer than
twenty minutes, instead of two hours and a half."

"I mention this," Mr. Parke added, "not only in justification of myself,
but also as a possible explanation of certain shortcomings in the work
of the original master. Sometimes the action may seem to drag a trifle,
but that is not the fault of the author, but of life itself. To be real
one must be true, and truth is not to be governed by him who holds the
pen."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Parke's explanation having been received in a proper and
appreciative spirit by his fellow-Dreamers, Mr. Jones announced that Mr.
Monty St. Vincent was the holder of the sixth ball, whereupon Mr. St.
Vincent arose and delivered himself as follows:




V

THE SALVATION OF FINDLAYSON

     _Being the story told by the holder of the sixth ball, Mr. Monty
     St. Vincent._


A donkey engine, next to a Sophomore at a football match that is going
his way, is the noisiest thing man ever made, and No. 4-11-44, who
travelled first-class on the American liner _New York_, was not inclined
to let anybody forget the fact. He held a commanding position on the
roof of the deck state-room No. 10, just aft of the forecastle stringer
No. 3, and over the main jib-stay boom No. 6-7/8, that held the
rudder-chains in place. All the little Taffrails and Swashbucklers
looked up to him, and the Capstan loved him like a brother, for he very
often helped the Capstan to bring the Anchor aboard, when otherwise
that dissipated bit of iron would have staid out all night. The Port
Tarpaulins insisted that the Donkey Engine was the greatest humorist
that ever lived, although the Life Preservers hanging by the rail did
not like him at all, because he once said they were Irish--"Cork all
through," said he. Even the Rivets that held the Top Gallant Bilges
together used to strain their eyes to see the points of the Donkey
Engine's jokes, and the third Deputy-assistant Piston Rod, No. 683, in
the hatchway stoke-hole, used to pound the cylinders almost to pieces
trying to encore the Donkey Engine's comic songs.

The Main Mast used to say that the Donkey Engine was as bright as the
Starboard Lights, and the Smoke Stack is said to have told the Safety
Valve that he'd rather give up smoking than lose the constant flow of
wit the Donkey Engine was always giving forth.

Findlayson discovered all this. After his Bridge had gone safely through
that terrible ordeal when the Ganges rose and struck for higher tides,
Findlayson collapsed. The Bridge--But that is another story. This is
this one, and there is little profit in telling two stories at once,
especially in a day when one can get the two stories printed separately
in the several magazines for which one writes exclusively.

After the ordeal of the Kashi Bridge, Findlayson, as I have said,
collapsed, and it is no wonder, as you will see for yourself when you
read that other story. As the Main Girder of the Bridge itself wrote
later to the Suspension Cables of the Brooklyn Bridge, "It's a wonder to
me that the Sahib didn't have the _Bashi-bazouks_ earlier in the game.
He suffered a terrible strain that night."

To which the Cables of the Brooklyn Bridge wittily replied that while
they sympathized with Findlayson, they didn't believe he really knew
what strain was. "Wait until he has five lines of trolley-cars running
over him all day and night. That _is_ a strain! He'd be worse cut up
than ever if he had that. And yet we thrive under it. After all, for
solid health, it's better to be a Bridge than a Man. When are you coming
across?"

Now Findlayson might have collapsed a dozen times before the Government
would have cared enough to give him the vacation he needed. Not that
Government is callous, like an elephant, but because it is conducted, as
a witty Cobra once remarked in the jungle as he fascinated a Tigress, by
a lot of Red Tapirs. Findlayson put in an application for a six months'
vacation, but by the time the necessary consent had reached him the six
months were up. Everybody remembers the tale of Dorkins of the Welsh
Fusileers and his appointment to the Department of the Poloese, how his
term of office was to be six years, and how by the time his credentials
reached him his term of office had expired. So with Findlayson. On the
very date of the expiration of his desired leave he received permission
to go, and of course could not then do so, because it was too late.
Fortunately for Findlayson, however, the Viceroy himself happened to be
passing through, and Findlayson entertained him at a luncheon on the
Bridge. By some curious mistake, when the nuts and raisins were passed,
Findlayson had provided a plateful of steel nuts, designed to hold
rivets in place, instead of the usual assortment of almonds and
_hiki-ree_.

"This man needs a rest," said the Viceroy, as he broke his front tooth
trying to crack one of the steel nuts, and he immediately extended
Findlayson's leave to twenty years without pay, for which Findlayson was
very grateful.

"What is the matter with the man?" asked the Viceroy, as he drove to the
station with the practising Jinrikshaw of the place.

[Illustration: THE VICEROY EXAMINES HIS RUINED SMILE]

"It's my professional opinion," replied the Jinrikshaw, "that the Sahib
has a bad attack of melancholia. He hasn't laughed for six months. If we
could only get him to laugh, I think he'd recover."

"Then it was not in a jocular spirit that he ruined my teeth with those
nuts?" demanded the Viceroy, taking a small mirror out of his pocket and
gazing ruefully on his ruined smile.

"No, your most Excellent Excellency," replied the Jinrikshaw. "The fact
that he ate five of them himself shows that it was an error, not a
jest."

It was thus that Findlayson got his vacation, and even to this day the
Kaskalooloo folk are laughing over his error more heartily than they
ever laughed over a joke.

A month after leaving his post Findlayson reached London, where he was
placed under the care of the most famous physicians. They did everything
they could to make him laugh, without success. _Punch_ was furnished,
and he read it through day after day, and burst into hysterical weeping.
They took him to the theatres, and he never even smiled. They secured a
front seat in the House of Commons for him during important debates, and
he merely sobbed. They took him to the Army and Navy Stores, and he
shivered with fear. Even Beerbohm Tree as Lady Macbeth, or whatever r√¥le
it was he was playing at the time, failed to coax the old-time dimple to
his cheek. His friends began to whisper among themselves that "old
Findlayson was done for," when Berkeley Hauksbee, who had been with him
in the Soudan, suggested a voyage to the United States.

"He'll see enough there to laugh at, or I'm an unshod, unbroken,
saw-backed, shark-eating skate!" he asserted, and as a last resource
Findlayson was packed, bag and baggage, aboard the liner _New York_.

The first three days out Findlayson was dead to the world. He lay like a
fallen log in the primeval forest. Stewards were of no avail. Even the
repeated calls of the doctor, whose apprehensions were aroused, could
not restore him to life.

[Illustration: THEY GAVE HIM _PUNCH_]

"They'll be sewin' him up in a jute bag and droppin' him overboard if
he doesn't come to by to-morrow," observed the Water Bottle to the Soap
Dish, with a sympathetic glance at the prostrate Findlayson.

"He'll be seasicker than ever if they do," returned the Soap Dish. "It's
a long swim from here to Sandy Hook."

But Findlayson came to in time to avert the catastrophe, and took
several turns up and down the deck. He played horse-billiards with an
English curate, but showed no sign of interest or amusement even at the
curious aspect of the ladies who lay inert in the steamer chairs ranged
along the deck.

"I'm afraid it's hopeless," said Peroo, his valet, shaking his head
sadly. "Unless I take him in hand myself." And Peroo was seized with an
idea.

"I'll do it!" he cried.

He approached Findlayson.

"The Sahib will not laugh," he said. "He will not smile even. He has not
snickered all day. Take these, then. They're straight opium, but
there's fun in them."

He took a small zinc bait-box from his fishing-kit and handed it to
Findlayson, who, on opening it, found a dozen or more brown pellets.
Hastily swallowing six of them, the sick man turned over in his bunk and
tried to go to sleep, while Peroo went into the smoking-room for a game
of _Pok-Kah_ with a party of _Drummerz_ who were crossing to America.

A soft yellow haze suffused the state-room, and Findlayson, nervously
starting to his feet to see what had caused it, was surprised to find
himself confronted by a grinning row of Technicalities ranged in a line
upon the sofa under the port, while seated upon his steamer trunk was
the Donkey Engine 4-11-44.

"Well, here we are," said the Deck Beam, addressing the Donkey Engine.
"What are we here for?"

"That's it," said the Capstan. "We've left our places at your command.
Now, why?"

[Illustration: THE DONKEY ENGINE CALLS ON FINDLAYSON]

"I wanted you to meet my friend Findlayson," said the Donkey Engine.
"He's a good fellow. Findlayson, let me present you to my
associates--Mr. Capstan, Mr. Findlayson. And that gentleman over in the
corner, Mr. Findlayson, is the Starboard Upper Deck Stringer. Rivet,
come over here and meet Mr. Findlayson. The Davits will be here in a
minute, and the Centrifugal Bilge Pump will drop in later."

"I'm glad to meet you all," said Findlayson, rather dazed.

"Thought you would be," returned the Donkey Engine. "That's why I asked
them to come up."

"Do you mind if I smoke in here?" said the Funnel.

"Not a bit," said Findlayson, solemnly. "Let me offer you a cigar."

The party roared at this.

"He doesn't smoke cigars, Fin, old boy," said the Donkey Engine. "Offer
him a ton of coal Perfectos or a basket of kindling Invincibles and
he'll take you up. Old Funnel makes a cigarette of a cord of pine logs,
you know."

"I should think so much smoking would be bad for your nerves," suggested
Findlayson.

"'Ain't got any," said the Funnel. "I'm only a Flue, you know. Every
once in a while I do get a sooty feeling inside, but beyond that I don't
suffer at all."

"Where's the Keel?" asked the Thrust Block, taking off one of his six
collars, which hurt his neck.

"He can't come up to-night," said the Donkey Engine, with a sly wink at
Findlayson, who, however, failed to respond. "The Hold is feeling a
little rocky, and the Keel's got to stay down and steady him."

Findlayson looked blankly at the Donkey Engine. As an Englishman in a
nervously disordered state, he did not seem quite able to appreciate the
Donkey Engine's joke. The latter sighed, shook his cylinder a trifle,
and began again.

"Hear about the Bow Anchor's row with the Captain?" he asked the
Garboard Strake.

"No," replied the Strake. "Wouldn't he bow?"

"He'd bow all right," said the Donkey Engine, "but he wouldn't ank.
Result is he's been put in chains."

"Serves him right," said the Bilge Stringer, filling his pipe with
Findlayson's tooth-powder. "Serves him right. He ought to be chucked
overboard."

"True," said the Donkey Engine. "An anchor can't be made to ank unless
you chuck him overboard."

The company roared at this, but Findlayson never cracked a smile.

"That is very true," he said. "In fact, how could an anchor ank, as you
put it, without being lowered into the sea?"

"It's a bad case," observed Bulwark Plate, in a whisper, to the Upper
Deck Plank.

"It floors me," said the Plank. "I don't think he'd laugh if his uncle
died and left him a million."

"Shut up," said the Donkey Engine. "We've got to do it or bust. Let's
try again."

Then he added, aloud,

"Say, Technicalities, did you ever hear that riddle of the Starboard
Coal Bunker's?"

The company properly had not.

"Well, the Starboard Coal Bunker got it off at Lady Airshaft's last
reception at Binks's Ship-yard: 'What's the difference between a
man-o'-war going through the Suez Canal under tow of a tug-boat and a
boiler with a capacity of 6000 tons of steam loaded to 7000 tons, with
no safety-valve, in charge of an engineer who has a certificate from
Bellevue Hospital showing that he is a good ambulance-driver, but
supports a widowed mother and seven uncles upon no income to speak of,
all of which is invested in Spanish fours, bought on a margin of two per
cent. in a Wall Street bucket-shop conducted by two professional
card-players from Honolulu under indictment at San Francisco for
arson?'"

"Tutt!" said the Rudder. "What a chestnut! I was brought up on riddles
of that kind. _They can't climb a tree._"

"Nope," said the Donkey Engine. "That's not the answer."

"You don't know it yourself," suggested the Funnel.

"Nope," said the Donkey Engine.

"Well, what the deuce is the answer?" said Findlayson, irritably.

"Give it up--the rest of you?" cried the Donkey Engine.

"We do," they roared in chorus.

"I'm surprised at you," said the Donkey Engine. "It's very simple
indeed. The man-o'-war going through the Suez Canal under tow of a
tug-boat has a pull--and the other hasn't, don't you know--eh?"

Findlayson scratched his forehead.

"I don't see--" he began.

"There is no reason why you should. You're not feeling well,"
interrupted the Donkey Engine, "but it's a good riddle--eh?"

"Quite so," said Findlayson.

"It's long, anyhow," said the Screw.

"Which we can't say for to-day's run--only 867 miles?" suggested the
Donkey Engine, interrogatively.

"It's long enough," growled the Screw.

"It certainly is, if it is reckoned in minutes," retorted the Donkey
Engine. "I never knew such a long day."

And so they continued in an honest and technical effort to restore
Findlayson. But he wouldn't laugh, and finally the Screw and the
Centrifugal Bilge Pump and the Stringers and the other well-meaning
Technicalities rose up to leave. Day was approaching, and all were
needed at their various posts.

"Good-night--or good-morning, Findlayson," said the Donkey Engine.
"We've had a very pleasant night. I am only sorry, however, we cannot
make you laugh."

"I never laugh," said Findlayson. "But tell me, old chap, are you
really human? You talk as if you were."

"No," returned the Donkey Engine, sadly. "I am neither fish, flesh, nor
fowl. I'm a _bivalve--a cockney bivalve_," he added.

"Oh," replied Findlayson, with a gesture of deprecation, "you are not a
clam!"

"No," the Donkey Engine replied, as with a sudden inspiration; "but I'm
a hoister."

And Findlayson burst into a paroxysm of mirth--it must be remembered
that he was English--the like of which the good old liner never heard
before.

And later, when Peroo returned, having won at _Pok-Kah_ with the
_Drummerz_, he found his master sleeping like the veriest child.

Findlayson was saved.




VI

IN WHICH HARRY SNOBBE RECITES A TALE OF GLOOM


Monty St. Vincent had no sooner seated himself after telling the
interesting tale of the Salvation of Findlayson, when Billy Jones, of
the _Oracle_, rose up and stated that Mr. Harry Snobbe, as the holder of
the seventh ball, would unfold the truly marvellous story that had come
to him after the first dinner of the Dreamers.

"Mr. Snobbe requests all persons having nerves to be unstrung to
unstring them now. His tale, he tells me, is one of intense gloom; but
how intense the gloom may be, I know not. I will leave it to him to
show. Gentlemen, Mr. Snobbe."

Mr. Snobbe took the floor, and after a few preliminary remarks, read as
follows:


THE GLOOMSTER

A TALE OF THE ISLE OF MAN

Old Gloomster Goodheart, of Ballyhack, left the Palace of the Bishop of
Man broken-hearted. The Bishop had summoned him a week previous to show
cause why he should not be removed from his office of Gloomster, a
position that had been held by members of his family for ten
generations, aye, since the days of that ancient founder of the family,
Cronky Gudehart, of whom tradition states that his mere presence at a
wedding turned the marriage feast into a seeming funeral ceremony,
making men and women weep, and on two occasions driving the bride to
suicide and the groom into the Church. Indeed, Cronky Gudehart was
himself the first to occupy the office of Gloomster. The office was
created for his especial benefit, as you will see, for it was the mere
fact that the two grooms bereft at the altar sought out the consolation
of the monastery that called the attention of the ecclesiastical
authorities to the desirability of establishing such a functionary. The
two grooms were men of wealth, and, had it not been for Cronky
Gudehart's malign influence, neither they nor their wealth would have
passed into the control of the Church, a fact which Ramsay Ballawhaine,
then Bishop of Man, was quick to note and act upon.

"The gloomier the world," said he, "the more transcendently bright will
Heaven seem; and if we can make Heaven seem bright, the Church will be
able to declare dividends. Let us spread misery and sorrow. Let us
destroy the sunshine of life that so gilds with glory the flesh and the
devil. Let all that is worldly be made to appear mean and vile and
sordid."

"But how?" Ramsay Ballawhaine was asked. "That is a hard thing to do."

"For some 'twill doubtless so appear, but I have a plan," the Bishop had
answered. "We have here living, not far from Jellimacksquizzle, the
veriest spoil-sport in the person of Cronky Gudehart. He has a face that
would change the August beauties of a sylvan forest into a bleak scene
of wintry devastation. I am told that when Cronky Gudehart gazes upon a
rose it withers, and children passing him in the highways run shrieking
to their mothers, as though escaping from the bogie man of Caine
Hall--which castle, as you know, has latterly been haunted by horrors
that surpass the imagination. His voice is like the strident cry of
doom. Hearing his footsteps, strong men quail and women swoon; and I am
told that, dressed as Santa Claus, on last Christmas eve he waked up his
sixteen children, and with a hickory stick belabored one and all until
they said that mercy was all they wanted for their Yule-tide gifts."

"'Tis true," said the assistant vicar. "'Tis very true; and I happen to
know, through my own ministrations, that when a beggar-woman from Sodor
applied to Cronky Gudehart for relief from the sorrows of the world, he
gave her a bottle of carbolic acid, saying that therein lay the cure of
all her woes. But what of Cronky and your scheme?"

"Let us establish the office of Gloomster," returned the Bishop. "Set
apart Nightmare Abbey as his official residence, and pay him a salary to
go about among the people spreading grief and woe among them until they
fly in desperation to us who alone can console."

"It's out of sight!" ejaculated the assistant vicar, "and Cronky's just
the man for the place."

It was thus that the office of Gloomster was instituted. As will be
seen, the duties of the Gloomster were simple. He was given liberty of
entrance to all joyous functions in the life of the Isle of Man, social
or otherwise, and his duties were to ruin pleasure wherever he might
find it. Cronky Gudehart was installed in the office, and Nightmare
Abbey was set apart as his official residence. He attended all
weddings, and spoiled them in so far as he was able. It was his custom,
when the vicar asked if there was any just reason why these two should
not be joined together in holy wedlock, to rise up and say that, while
he had no evidence at hand, he had no doubt there was just cause in
great plenty, and to suggest that the ceremony should be put off a week
or ten days while he and his assistants looked into the past records of
the principals. At funerals he took the other tack, and laughed joyously
at every manifestation of grief. At hangings he would appear, and dilate
humorously upon the horrid features thereof; and at afternoon teas he
would appear clad in black garments from head to foot, and exhort all
present to beware of the future, and to give up the hollowness and
vanities of tea and macaroons.

Results were not long in their manifestation. In place of open marriage
the young people of the isle, to escape the malignant persecution of the
Gloomster, took up the habit of elopement, and as elopements always end
in sorrow and regret, the monasteries and nunneries waxed great in the
land. To avoid funerals, at which the Gloomster's wit was so fearsome a
thing, the sick or the maimed and the halt fled out into the open sea
and drowned themselves, and all sociability save that which came from
book sales and cake auctions--in their very nature destructive of a love
of life--faded out of the land.

"Cronky Gudehart was an ideal Gloomster," said the Bishop of Man, with a
sigh, when that worthy spoil-sport, having gone to Africa for a
vacation, was eaten by cannibals. "We shall not look upon his like
again."

"I've no doubt he disagreed with the cannibals," sobbed the vicar, as he
thought over the virtues of the deceased.

[Illustration: THE END OF THE GLOOMSTER]

"None who ate him could escape appendicitis," commented the Bishop,
wiping a tear from his eye; "and, thank Heaven, the operation for that
has yet to be invented. Those cannibals have been taken by this time
from their wicked life."

So it had gone on for ten generations. Cronky had been succeeded by his
son and by his son's son, and so on. To be Gloomster of the Isle of Man
had by habit become the prerogative of the Gudehart family until the
present, when Christian Goodheart found himself summoned before the
Bishop to show cause why he should not be removed. Hitherto the
Gloomster had given satisfaction. It would be hard to point to one of
them--unless we except Eric Goodheart, the one who changed the name from
Gudehart to Goodheart--who had not filled the island with that kind of
sorrow that makes life seem hardly worth living. Eric Goodheart had once
caught his father, "Bully Gudehart," as he was called, in a moment of
forgetfulness, doing a kindly act to a beggar at the door. A wanderer
had appeared at the door of Nightmare Abbey in a starving condition, and
Eric had surprised the Gloomster in the very act of giving the beggar a
piece of apple-pie. The father found himself suddenly confronted by the
round, staring eyes of his son, and he was frightened. If it were ever
known that the Gloomster had done a kindly thing for anybody, he might
be removed, and Bully Gudehart recognized the fact.

"Come here!" he cried brutally, to Eric, as the beggar marched away
munching hungrily on the pie. "Come here, you brat! Do you hear? Come
_here_!" The boy was coming all the while. "You saw?"

"Yes, your Honor," he replied, "I saw. The man said he was nearly dead
with hunger, and you gave him food."

"No," roared the Gloomster, full of fear, for he knew how small boys
prattle, "I did not give him food! _I gave him pie!_"

"All right, your Majesty," the boy answered. "You gave him pie. And I
see now why they call you Bully. For pie is bully, and nothing less."

"My son," the Gloomster responded, seizing a trunk-strap and whacking
the lad with it forcefully, "you don't understand. Do you know why I
fed that man?"

"Because he was dying of hunger," replied the lad, ruefully, rubbing his
back where the trunk-strap had hit him.

"Precisely," said the Gloomster. "If I hadn't given him that pie he'd
have died on the premises, and I can't afford the expense of having a
tramp die here. As it is, he will enjoy a lingering death. _That was one
of your mother's pies._"

Eric ran sobbing to his room, but in his heart he believed that he had
detected his father in a kindly act, and conceived that a Gloomster
might occasionally relax. Nevertheless, when he succeeded to the office
he was stern and unrelenting, in spite of the fact that occasionally
there was to be detected in his eye a glance of geniality. This was
doubtless due to the fact that from the time of his intrusion upon his
father's moment of weakness he was soundly thrashed every morning before
breakfast, and spanked before retiring at night, as a preliminary to his
prayers.

But Christian Goodheart, the present incumbent, had not given
satisfaction, and his Bishop had summoned him to show cause why he
should not be removed, and, as we have seen, the Gloomster had gone away
broken-hearted. Shortly after having arrived at Nightmare Abbey he was
greeted by his wife.

"Well, Christian," she said, "what did the Bishop say?"

"He wants my resignation," sighed Christian. "He says I have shown
myself unworthy, and I fear he has evidence."

"Evidence? Against you, my husband, the most disagreeable man in the
isle?" cried his wife, fondly.

"Yes," sighed Christian. "Do you remember, you old termagant, how,
forgetting myself and my position, last Tuesday I laughed when Peter
Skelly told us what his baby said to his nurse?"

"I do, Christian," the good woman answered. "You laughed heartily, and I
warned you to be careful. It is not the Gloomster's place to laugh, and
I feared it might reach the Bishop's ears."

"It has done so," sighed Christian, shaking his head sadly and wringing
his hands in his agony. "It has reached the Bishop's ears. Little Glory
Grouse was passing by the door at the moment and saw me. Astonished, the
child ran home and told her mother. 'Mommer!' she cried, 'I have seen
the Gloomster laugh! I have seen the Gloomster laugh!' The child was
cross-questioned, but stuck to her story until Mrs. Grouse was
convinced, and told her neighbors, and these neighbors told other
neighbors, until the story came to the ears of Canon Cashman, by whom it
was conveyed to the Bishop himself."

"What a little gossip that Glory Grouse is! She'll come to a bad end,
mark my words!" cried Mrs. Goodheart, angrily. "She'll have her honored
father's name on the circus posters yet."

"Do not blame the child," said Christian, sadly. "She was right. Who
had ever seen a Gloomster smile before? As well expect a ray of
sunshine or a glimpse of humor in a Manx novel--"

"But the Bishop is not going to remove you for one false step, is he,
Christian? He cannot do that, can he?" pleaded the woman.

"That is what I asked him," Christian answered. "And he handed me a
type-written memorandum of what he called my record. It seems that for
six months they have been spying upon me. Read it for yourself."

Mrs. Goodheart took the paper and read, with trembling hands:

"'January 1, 1898--wished Peggy Meguire a happy New Year.' Did you
really, Christian?"

"I don't remember doing so," sighed the Gloomster. "If I did, it must
have been in sarcasm, for I hate Peggy Meguire, and I am sure I wish her
nothing of the sort. I told the Bishop so, but all he would say was,
'Read on.'"

[Illustration: WISHED HER A HAPPY NEW-YEAR]

"'February 23, 1898,'" Mrs. Goodheart continued, reading from the
paper--"'took off his coat and wrapped it about the shivering form of a
freezing woman.'

"How very imprudent of you, Christian!" said his wife.

"But the Bishop didn't know the circumstances," said Christian. "It was
the subtlest kind of deviltry, not humanity, that prompted the act. If I
hadn't given her my coat, the old lady would have frozen to death and
been soon out of her misery. As it was, my wet coat saved her from an
immediate surcease of sorrow, and, as I had foreseen, gave her muscular
rheumatism of the most painful sort, from which she has suffered ever
since."

"You should have explained to the Bishop."

"I did."

"And what did he say?"

"He said my methods were too damned artistic."

"What?" cried Mrs. Goodheart. "The Bishop?"

"Oh, well," said Christian, "words to that effect. He doesn't
appreciate the subtleties of gloom distinction. What he looks for is
sheer brutality. Might as well employ an out-and-out desperado for the
work. I like to infuse a little art into my work. I've tried to bring
Gloomsterism up to the level of an art, a science. Slapping a man in the
face doesn't make him gloomy; it makes him mad. But subtlely infusing
woe into his daily life, so that he doesn't know whence all his trouble
comes--ah! that is the perfect flower of the Gloomster's work!"

"H'm!" said Mrs. Goodheart. "That's well enough, Christian. If you are
rich enough to consume your own product with profit, it's all right to
be artistic; but if you are dependent on a salary, don't forget your
consumer. What else have they against you?"

"Read on, woman," said the Gloomster.

"'April 1, 1898,'" the lady read. "'Gave a half-crown to a starving
beggar.'"

"That was another highly artistic act," said Christian. "I told the
Bishop that I had given the coin to the beggar knowing it to be
counterfeit, and hoping that he would be arrested for trying to pass it.
The Bishop cut me short by saying that my hope had not been fulfilled.
It seems that that ass of a beggar bought some food with the half-crown,
and the grocer who sold him the food put the counterfeit half-crown in
the contribution-box the next Sunday, and the Church was stuck. That's
what I call hard luck."

"Oh, well," returned Mrs. Goodheart, putting the paper down in despair.
"There's no need to read further. That alone is sufficient to cause your
downfall. When do you resign?"

"At once," sighed Christian. "In fact, the Bishop had already written my
resignation--which I signed."

"And the land is without a Gloomster for the first time in five hundred
years?" demanded Mrs. Goodheart.

"No," said Christian, the tears coursing down his nose. "The place is
filled already, and by one who knows gloom only theoretically--a mere
summer resident of the Isle of Man. In short, a famous London author has
succeeded me."

"His name!" cried Mrs. Goodheart.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Just then," said Snobbe, "I awoke, and did not catch the author's name.
It is a curious thing about dreams that just when you get to the crucial
point you wake up."

"I wonder who the deuce the chap could have been?" murmured the other
diners. "Has any London author with a residence on the Isle of Man ever
shown any acquaintance with gloom?"

"I don't know for sure," said Billy Jones. "But my impression is that it
must be the editor of _Punch_. What I am uncertain about is his
residence on the Isle of Man. Otherwise I think he fills the bill."




VII

THE DREAMERS DISCUSS A MAGAZINE POEM


The pathetic tale of the Gloomster having been told and discussed, it
turned out that Haarlem Bridge was the holder of the next ball in the
sequence, the eighth. Haarley had been looking rather nervous all the
evening, and two or three times he manifested some desire to withdraw
from the scene. By order of the chairman, however, the precaution had
been taken to lock all the doors, so that none of the Dreamers should
escape, and, consequently, when the evil hour arrived, Haarley was
perforce on hand.

He rose up reluctantly, and, taking a single page of manuscript from his
pocket, after a few preliminary remarks that were no more nor less
coherent than the average after-dinner speech, read the following
lines, which he termed a magazine poem:

[Illustration: "'O ARGENT-BROWED SARCOPHAGUS'"]

    "O argent-browed Sarcophagus,
      That looms so through the ethered trees,
    Why dost thou seem to those of us
      Who drink the poisoned chalice on our knees
    So distant and so empyrean,
      So dour yet full of mystery?
    Hast thou the oracle as yet unseen
      To guide thy fell misogyny?

    "Nay, let the spirit of the age
      With all its mystic beauty stand
    Translucent ever, aye, in spite the rage
      Of Cossack and of Samarcand!
    Thou art enough for any soul's desire!
    Thou hast the beauty of cerulean fire!
    But we who grovel on the damask earth
    Are we despoilt of thy exigeant mirth?

    "Canst listen to a prayer, Sarcophagus?
    Indeed O art thou there, Sarcophagus?
    What time the Philistine denies,
    What time the raucous cynic cries,
    Avaunt, yet spare! Let this thy motto be,
    With thy thesaurian verbosity.
    Nor think that I, a caterpillian worm,
    Before thy glance should ever honk or squirm.

    "'Tis but the stern condition of the poor
    That panting brings me pottering at thy door,
    To breathe of love and argent charity
    For thee, for thee, iguanodonic thee!"

"That's an excellent specimen of magazine poetry," said Billy Jones.
"But I observe, Haarley, that you haven't given it a title. Perhaps if
you gave it a title we might get at the mystery of its meaning. A title
is a sort of Baedeker to the general run of magazine poems."

Haarlem grew rather red of countenance as he answered, "Well, I didn't
exactly like to give it the title I dreamed; it didn't seem to shed
quite as much light on the subject as a title should."

"Still, it may help," said Huddy Rivers. "I read a poem in a magazine
the other day on 'Mystery.' And if it hadn't had a title I'd never have
understood it. It ran this way:

    "Life, what art thou? Whence springest thou?
    The past, the future, or the now?
    Whence comes thy lowering lunacy?
    Whence comes thy mizzling mystery?
    Hast thou a form, a shape, a lineament?
    Hast thou a single seraph-eyed medicament
    To ease our sorrow and our twitching woe?
    Hast thou one laudable Alsatian glow
    To compensate, commensurate, and condign
    For all these dastard, sleekish qualms of mine?
    Hast thou indeed an abject agate plot
    To show that what exists is really not?
    Or art thou just content to sit and say
    Life's but a specious, coral roundelay?"

"I committed the thing to memory because it struck me as being a good
thing to remember--it was so full of good phrases. 'Twitching woe,' for
instance, and 'sleekish qualms,'" he continued.

"Quaking qualms would have been better," put in Tenafly Paterson, who
judged poetry from an alliterative point of view.

"Nevertheless, I liked sleekish qualms," retorted Huddy. "Quaking qualms
might be more alliterative, but sleekish qualms is _less_ commonplace."

"No doubt," said Tenafly. "I never had 'em myself, so I'll take your
word for it. But what do you make out of 'coral roundelay'?"

"Nothing at all," said Huddy. "I don't bother my head about 'coral
roundelay' or 'seraph-eyed medicament.' I haven't wasted an atom of my
gray matter on 'lowering lunacy' or 'agate plot' or 'mizzling mystery.'
And all because the poet gave his poem a title. He called the thing
'Mystery,' and when I had read it over half a dozen times I concluded
that he was right; and if the thing remained a mystery to the author, I
don't see why a reader should expect ever to be able to understand it."

"Very logical conclusion, Huddy," said Billy Jones, approvingly. "If a
poet chooses a name for his poem, you may make up your mind that there
is good reason for it, and certainly the verses you have recited about
the 'coral roundelay' are properly designated."

"Well, I'd like to have the title of that yard of rhyme Haarlem Bridge
just recited," put in Dobbs Ferry, scratching his head in bewilderment.
"It strikes me as being quite as mysterious as Huddy's. What the deuce
can a man mean by referring to an 'auburn-haired Sarcophagus'?"

"It wasn't auburn-haired," expostulated Haarlem. "It was argent-browed."

"Old Sarcophagus had nickel-plated eyebrows, Dobby," cried Tom Snobbe,
forgetting himself for a moment.

"Well, who the dickens was old Sarcophagus?" queried Dobby, unappeased.

"He was one of the Egyptian kings, my dear boy," vouchsafed Billy Jones,
exploding internally with mirth. "You've heard of Augustus C√¶sar,
haven't you?"

"Yes," said Dobby.

"Well," explained Billy Jones, "Sarcophagus occupied the same relation
to the Egyptians that Augustus did to the Romans--in fact, the
irreverent used to call him Sarcophagustus, instead of Sarcophagus,
which was his real name. This poem of Haarley's is manifestly addressed
to him."

[Illustration: "SARCOPHAGUSTUS"]

"Did he have nickel-plated eyebrows?" asked Bedfork Parke, satirically.

"No," said Billy Jones. "As I remember the story of Sarcophagus as I
read of him in college, he was a very pallid sort of a potentate--his
forehead was white as marble. So they called him the Argent-browed
Sarcophagus."

"It's a good thing for us we have Billy Jones with us to tell us all
these things," whispered Tom Snobbe to his brother Dick.

"You bet your life," said Dick. "There's nothing, after all, like a
classical education. I wish I'd known it while I was getting mine."

"What's 'fell misogyny'?" asked Tenafly Paterson, who seemed to be
somewhat enamoured of the phrase. "Didn't old Sarcophagus care for
chemistry?"

"Chemistry?" demanded the chairman.

"That's what I said," said Tenny. "Isn't misogyny a chemical compound of
metal and gas?"

Tenny had been to the School of Mines for two weeks, and had retired
because he didn't care for mathematics and the table at the college
restaurant wasn't good.

"I fancy you are thinking of heterophemy, which is an infusion of
unorthodox gases into a solution of vocabulary particles," suggested
Billy Jones, grasping his sides madly to keep them from shaking.

"Oh yes," said Tenny, "of course. I remember now." Then he laughed
somewhat, and added, "I always get misogyny and heterophemy mixed."

"Who wouldn't?" cried Harry Snobbe. "I do myself! There's no chance to
talk about either where I live," he added. "Half the people don't know
what they mean. They're not very anthropological up my way."

"What's a Samarcand?" asked Tenafly, again. "Haarley's poem speaks of
Cossack and of Samarcand. Of course we all know that a Cossack is a
garment worn by the Russian peasants, but I never heard of a Samarcand."

"It's a thing to put about your neck," said Dick Snobbe. "They wear 'em
in winter out in Siberia. I looked it up some years ago."

"Let's take up 'cerulean fire,'" said Bedford Parke, Tenafly appearing
to be satisfied with Snobbe's explanation.

"What's 'cerulean fire'?"

"Blue ruin," said Huddy.

"And 'damask earth'?" said Bedford.

"Easy," cried Huddy. "Even I can understand that. Did you never hear,
Beddy, of painting a town red? That's damask earth in a small way. If
you can paint a town red with your limited resources, what couldn't a
god do with a godlike credit? As I understand the poem, old Sarcophagus
comes down out of the cerulean fire, and goes in for a little damask
earth. That's why the poet later says:

    "'Canst listen to a prayer, Sarcophagus?
    Indeed O art thou there, Sarcophagus?'

He wanted to pray to him, but didn't know if he'd got back from damask
earth yet."

"You're a perfect wonder, Huddy," said Billy Jones. "As a
thought-detector you are a beauty. I believe you'd succeed if you opened
up a literary bureau somewhere and devoted your time to explaining
Browning and Meredith and others to a mystified public."

"'Tis an excellent idea," said Tom Snobbe. "I'd really rejoice to see
certain modern British masterpieces translated into English, and, with
headquarters in Boston, the institution ought to flourish. Do worms
honk?"

[Illustration: MR. BILLY JONES]

"I never heard of any doing so," replied the chairman, "but in these
days it is hardly safe to say that anything is impossible. If you have
watched the development of the circus in the last five years--I mean the
real circus, not the literary--you must have observed what an advance
intellectually has been made by the various members of the animal
kingdom. Elephants have been taught to sit at table and dine like
civilized beings on things that aren't good for them; pigs have been
educated so that, instead of evincing none but the more domestic
virtues and staying contentedly at home, they now play poker with the
sangfroid of a man about town; while the seal, a creature hitherto
considered useful only in the production of sacques for our wives, and
ear-tabs for our children, and mittens for our hired men, are now
branching out as rivals to the college glee clubs, singing songs,
playing banjoes, and raising thunder generally. Therefore it need
surprise no one if a worm should learn to honk as high as any goose that
ever honked. Anyhow, you can't criticise a poet for anything of that
kind. His license permits him to take any liberties he may see fit with
existing conditions."

"All of which," observed Dick Snobbe, "is wandering from the original
point of discussion. What is the meaning of Haarley's poem? I can't see
that as yet we have reached a definite understanding on that point."

"Well, I must confess," said Jones, "that I can't understand it myself;
but I never could understand magazine poetry, so that doesn't prove
anything. I'm only a newspaper man."

"Let's have the title, Haarley," cried Tenafly Paterson. "Was it called
'Life,' or 'Nerve Cells,' or what?"

For a second Bridge's cheeks grew red.

"Oh, well, if you must have it," he said, desperately, "here it is. It
was called, 'A Thought on Hearing, While Visiting Gibraltar in June,
1898, that the War Department at Washington Had Failed to Send Derricks
to Cuba, Thereby Delaying the Landing of General Shafter Three Days and
Giving Comfort to the Enemy.'"

"Great Scott!" roared Dick Snobbe. "What a title!"

"It is excellent," said Billy Jones. "I now understand the intent of the
poem."

"Which was--?" asked Rivers.

"To supply a real hiatus in latter-day letters," Jones replied; "to give
the public a war poem that would make them think, which is what a true
war poem should do. Who has the ninth ball?"

"I am the unfortunate holder of that," said Greenwich Place. "I'd just
been reading Anthony Hope and Mr. Dooley. The result is a composite,
which I will read."

"What do you call it, Mr. Place?" asked the stenographer.

"Well, I don't know," replied Greenwich. "I guess 'A Dooley Dialogue'
about describes it."




VIII

DOLLY VISITS CHICAGO

     _Being the substance of a Dooley dialogue dreamed by Greenwich
     Place, Esq._


"I must see him," said Dolly, rising suddenly from her chair and walking
to the window. "I really must, you know."

"Who?" I asked, rousing myself from the lethargy into which my morning
paper had thrust me. It was not grammatical of me--I was somewhat under
the influence of newspaper English--but Dolly is quick to understand.
"Must see who?" I continued.

"Who indeed?" cried Dolly, gazing at me in mock surprise. "How stupid of
you! If I went to Rome and said I must see him, you'd know I must mean
the Pope; if I went to Berlin and said I must see it, you'd know I
meant the Emperor. Therefore, when I come to Chicago and say that I must
see him, you ought to be able to guess that I mean--"

"Mr. Dooley?" I ventured, at a guess.

"Good for you!" cried Dolly, clapping her hands together joyously; and
then she hummed bewitchingly, "The Boy Guessed Right the Very First
Time," until I begged her to desist. When Dolly claps her hands and
hums, she becomes a vision of loveliness that would give the most
confirmed misogynist palpitation of the heart, and I had no wish to die.

"Do you suppose I could call upon him without being thought too
unconventional?" she blurted out in a moment.

"You can do anything," said I, admiringly. "That is, with me to help," I
added, for I should be sorry if Dolly were to grow conceited. "Perhaps
it would be better to have Mr. Dooley call upon you. Suppose you send
him your card, and put 'at home' on it? I fancy that would fetch him."

"Happy thought!" said Dolly. "Only I haven't one. In the excitement of
our elopement I forgot to get any. Suppose I write my name on a blank
card and send it?"

"Excellent," said I.

And so it happened; the morning's mail took out an envelope addressed to
Mr. Dooley, and containing a bit of pasteboard upon which was written,
in the charming hand of Dolly:

    Mrs. R. Dolly-Rassendyll.
            At Home.
         The Hippodorium.
        Tuesday Afternoon.

The response was gratifyingly immediate.

The next morning Dolly's mail contained Mr. Dooley's card, which read as
follows:

[Illustration: "'I MUST SEE HIM,' SAID DOLLY"]

          Mr. Dooley.
           At Work.
    Every Day.      Archie Road.

"Which means?" said Dolly, tossing the card across the table to me.

"That if you want to see Dooley you'll have to call upon him at his
place of business. It's a saloon, I believe," I observed. "Or a
club--most American saloons are clubs, I understand."

"I wonder if there's a ladies' day there?" laughed Dolly. "If there
isn't, perhaps I'd better not."

And I of course agreed, for when Dolly thinks perhaps she'd better not,
I always agree with her, particularly when the thing is a trifle
unconventional.

"I am sorry," she said, as we reached the conclusion. "To visit Chicago
without meeting Mr. Dooley strikes me as like making the Mediterranean
trip without seeing Gibraltar."

But we were not to be disappointed, after all, for that afternoon who
should call but the famous philosopher himself, accompanied by his
friend Mr. Hennessey. They were ushered into our little parlor, and
Dolly received them radiantly.

"Iv coorse," said Dooley, "I hatter come t' see me new-found cousin.
Hennessey here says, he says, 'She ain't yer cousin,' he says; but whin
I read yer car-r-rd over th' second time, an' see yer na-a-ame was R.
Dooley-Rassendyll, wid th' hifalution betwixt th' Dooley an' th'
Rassendyll, I says, 'Hennessey,' I says, 'that shmall bit iv a coupler
in that na-a-ame means only wan thing,' I says. 'Th' la-ady,' I says,
'was born a Dooley, an' 's prood iv it,' I says, 'as she'd ought to be,'
I says. 'Shure enough,' says Hennessey; 'but they's Dooleys an'
Dooleys,' he says. 'Is she Roscommon or Idunnaw?' he says. 'I dinnaw
meself,' I says, 'but whichiver she is,' I says, 'I'm goin' to see her,'
I says. 'Anny wan that can feel at home in a big hotel like the
Hippojorium,' I says, 'is wort' lookin' at, if only for the curawsity
of it,' I says. Are ye here for long?"

"We are just passing through," said Dolly, with a pleased smile.

"It's a gud pla-ace for that," said Dooley. "Thim as pass troo Chicago
ginerally go awaa pleased, an' thim as stays t'ink it's th' only pla-ace
in th' worruld, gud luk to 'em! for, barrin' Roscommon an' New York,
it's th' only pla-ace I have anny use for. Is yer hoosband anny relation
t' th' dood in the _Prizner iv Cinders_?"

I laughed quietly, but did not resent the implication. I left Dolly to
her fate.

"He is the very same person," said Dolly.

"I t'ought as much," said Dooley, eying me closely. "Th' strorberry mark
on his hair sort of identified him," he added. "Cousin Roopert, I ta-ak
ye by the hand. Ye was a bra-ave lad in th' first book, an' a dom'd fool
in th' second; but I read th' second first, and th' first lasht, so whin
I left ye ye was all right. I t'ought ye was dead?"

"No," said I. "I am only dead in the sense that Mr. Hope has no further
use for me."

"A wise mon, that Mr. Ant'ny Hawp," said Dooley. "Whin I write me book,"
he continued, "I'm goin' t' shtop short whin folks have had enough."

"Oh, indeed!" cried Dolly, enthusiastically. "Are you writing a book,
Mr. Dooley? I am so glad."

"Yis," said Dooley, deprecatingly, yet pleased by Dolly's enthusiasm.
"I'm half finished already. That is to say, I've made th'
illusthrations. An' the publishers have accepted the book on th'
stringth iv them."

"Really?" said Dolly. "Do you really draw?"

"Nawm," said Dooley. "I niver drew a picture in me life."

"He draws corks," put in Hennessey. "He's got a pull that bates--"

"Hennessey," interrupted Mr. Dooley, "since whin have ye been me
funnygraph? Whin me cousin ashks me riddles, I'll tell her th' answers.
G' down-shtairs an' get a cloob san'wich an' ate yourself to death.
Char-rge it to--er--char-rge it to Misther Rassendyll here--me cousin
Roop, be marritch. He looks liks a soft t'ing."

Hennessey subsided and showed an inclination to depart, and I, not
liking to see a well-meaning person thus sat upon, tried to be pleasant
to him.

"Don't go just yet, Mr. Hennessey," said I. "I should like to talk to
you."

"Mr. Rassendyll," he replied, "I'm not goin' just yet, but an invitation
to join farces with one iv the Hippojorium's cloob sandwhiches is too
much for me. I must accept. Phwat is the noomber iv your shweet?"

I gave him the number, and Hennessey departed. Before he went, however,
he comforted me somewhat by saying that he too was "a puppit in th'
han's iv an auter. Ye've got to do," said he, "whativer ye're sint t'
do. I'm told ye've killed a million Germans--bless ye!--but ye're
nawthin' but a facthory hand afther all. I'm th' background iv Dooley.
If Dooley wants to be smar-rt, I've got t' play th' fool. It's the same
with you; only you've had yer chance at a printcess, later on pla-acin'
the la-ady in a 'nonymous p'sition--which is enough for anny man, Dooley
or no Dooley."

Hennessey departed in search of his club sandwich, which was
subsequently alluded to in my bill, and for which I paid with pleasure,
for Hennessey is a good fellow. I then found myself listening to the
conversation between Dolly and Dooley.

"Roscommon, of course," Dolly was saying. What marvellous adaptability
that woman has! "How could you think, my dear cousin, that I belonged to
the farmer Dooleys?"

"I t'ought as much," said Mr. Dooley, genially, "now that I've seen ye.
Whin you put th' wor-rds 'at home' on yer car-rd, I had me doots. No
Dooley iv th' right sor-rt iver liked annyt'ing a landlord gave him; an'
whin y' expreshed satisfaction wid th' Hippojorium, I didn't at first
t'ink ye was a true Dooley. Since I've seen ye, I love ye properly,
ma'am--like th' cousin I am. I've read iv ye, just as I've read iv yer
hoosband, Cousin Roopert here be marritch, in th' biojographies of Mr.
Ant'ny Hawp, an' while I cudn't help likin' ye, I must say I didn't
t'ink ye was very deep on th' surface, an' when I read iv your elopin'
with Cousin Roop, I says to Hennessey, I says, 'Hennessey,' I says,
'that's all right, they'd bote iv 'em better die, but let us not be
asashinators,' I says; 'let 'em be joined in marritch. That's punishment
enough,' I says to Hennessey. Ye see, Miss Dooley, I have been marrit
meself."

"But I have found married life far from punishment," I heard Dolly say.
"I fear you're a sad pessimist, Mr. Dooley," she added.

"I'm not," Mr. Dooley replied. "I'm a Jimmycrat out an' out, if ye refer
to me politics; but if your remark is a reflection on me religion, let
me tell ye, ma'am, that, like all me countrymen in this beautiful land,
I'm a Uni-tarrian, an' prood iv it."

I ventured to interpose at this point.

"Dooley," said I, "your cousin Roop, as you call him, is very glad to
meet you, whatever your politics or your religion."

"Mosht people are," said he, dryly.

"That shows good taste," said I. "But how about your book? It has been
accepted on the strength of its illustrations, you say. How about them?
Can we see them anywhere? Are they on exhibition?"

"You can not only see thim, but you can drink 'em free anny time you
come out to Archie Road," Dooley replied, cordially.

"Drink--a picture?" I asked.

[Illustration: "'KAPE YOUR HOOSBAND HOME'"]

"Yis," said Dooley. "Didn't ye iver hear iv dhrinkin' in a picture,
Cousin Roopert? Didn't ye hear th' tark about th' 'Angelus' whin 'twas
here? Ye cud hear th' bells ringin' troo th' paint iv it. Ye cud almost
hear th' couple in front just back iv th' varnish quar'lin as t'whether
'twas th' Angelus er the facthery bell that was goin' off. 'Twas big
an' little felt th' inflooance iv Misther Miller's jaynius, just be
lukin' at ut--though as fer me, th' fir-rst time I see the t'ing I says,
says I, 'Is ut lukin' for bait to go fishin' with they are?' I says.
'Can't ye hear the pealin' iv the bells?' says Hennessey, who was with
me. 'That an' more,' I says. 'I can hear the pealin' o' th' petayties,'
I says. 'Do ye dhrink in th' feelin' iv it?' says Hennessey. 'Naw, t'ank
ye,' I says. 'I'm not thirsty,' I says. 'Besides, I've swore off
dhrinkin' ile-paintin's,' I says. 'Wathercoolers is gud enough fer me,'
I says. An' wid that we wint back to the Road. But that was th' fir-rst
time I iver heard iv dhrinkin' a work iv ar-rt."

"But some of the things you--ah--you Americans drink," put in Dolly,
"are works of art, my dear Mr. Dooley. Your cousin Rupert gave me a
cocktail at dinner last night--"

"Ye've hit ut, Miss Dooley," returned the philosopher, with a beautiful
enthusiasm. "Ye've hit ut square. I see now y're a thrue Dooley. An'
wid yer kind permission I'll dedicate me book to ye. Ut's cocktails that
book's about, ma'am. _Fifty Cocktails I Have Met_ is th' na-ame iv ut.
An' whin I submitted th' mannyscrip' wid th' illusthrations to the
publisher, he dhrank 'em all, an' he says, 'Dooley,' he says, 'ut's a
go. I'll do yer book,' he says, 'an' I'll pay ye wan hoondred an'
siventy-five per cent.,' he says. 'Set 'em up again, Dooley,' he says;
an' I mixed 'em. 'I t'ink, Dooley,' he says, afther goin' troo th'
illusthrations th' second toime--'I t'ink,' he says, 'ye'd ought to get
two hoondred an' wan per cent. on th' retail price iv th' book,' he
says. 'Can't I take a bottle iv these illusthrations to me office?' he
says. 'I'd like to look 'em over,' he says; an' I mixed 'im up a quar-rt
iv th' illusthrations to th' chapther on th' Mar-rtinney, an' sent him
back to his partner in th' ambylanch."

[Illustration: MIXING ILLUSTRATIONS]

"I shall look forward to the publication of your book with much
interest, Mr. Dooley," said Dolly. "Now that I have discovered our
cousinship, I am even more interested in you than I was before; and let
me tell you that, before I met you, I thought of you as the most vital
figure in American humor that has been produced in many years."

"I know nothin' iv American humor," said Dooley, "for I haven't met anny
lately, an' I know nothin' iv victuals save what I ate, an' me appytite
is as satisfoid wid itself as Hobson is wid th' kisses brawt onto him by
th' sinkin' iv th' Merrimickinley. But for you an' Misther Rassendyll,
ma'am, I've nothin' but good wishes an' ah--illusthrations to me book
whenever ye give yer orders. Kape your hoosband home, Miss Dooley," he
added. "He's scrapped wanst too often already wi' th' Ruraltarriers, an'
he's been killed off wanst by Mr. Ant'ny Hawp; but he'll niver die if ye
only kape him home. If he goes out he'll git fightin' agin. If he
attimpts a sayquil to the sayquil, he's dead sure enough!"

And with this Dolly and Dooley parted.

For myself, Rupert Rassendyll, I think Dooley's advice was good, and as
long as Dolly will keep me home, I'll stay. For is it not better to be
the happy husband of Dolly of the Dialogues, than to be going about like
a knight of the Middle Ages clad in the evening dress of the nineteenth
century, doing impossible things?

As for Dooley's impression of Dolly, I can only quote what I heard he
had said after meeting her.

"She's a Dooley sure," said he, being novel to compliment. And I am glad
she is, for despite the charms of Flavia of pleasant memory, there's
nobody like Dolly for me, and if Dolly can only be acknowledged by the
Dooleys, her fame, I am absolutely confident, is assured.




IX

IN WHICH YELLOW JOURNALISM CREEPS IN


The applause which followed the reading of the Dooley Dialogue showed
very clearly that, among the diners at least, neither Dooley nor Dolly
had waned in popularity. If the dilution, the faint echo of the
originals, evoked such applause, how potent must have been the genius of
the men who first gave life to Dooley and the fair Dolly!

"That's good stuff, Greenwich," said Billie Jones. "You must have eaten
a particularly digestible meal. Now for the tenth ball. Who has it?"

"I," said Dick Snobbe, rising majestically from his chair. "And I can
tell you what it is; I had a tough time of it in my dream, as you will
perceive when I recite to you the story of my experiences at the battle
of Manila."

"Great Scott, Dick!" cried Bedford Parke. "You weren't in that, were
you?"

"Sir," returned Dick, "I was not only _in_ it, I was the thing itself. I
was the war correspondent of the Sunday _Whirnal_, attached to Dewey's
fleet."

Whereupon the talented Mr. Snobbe proceeded to read the following cable
despatch from the special correspondent of the _Whirnal_:

  MANILA FALLS
  THE SPANISH FLEET DESTROYED
  THE SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT OF THE _WHIRNAL_
  AIDED BY COMMODORE DEWEY AND HIS FLEET
  CAPTURES THE PHILIPPINES

[Illustration: THE SHIP'S BARBER AT WORK]

MANILA, _May 1, 1898_.--I have glorious news. I have this day destroyed
the Spanish fleet and captured the Philippine Islands. According to my
instructions from the City Editor of the _Whirnal_, I boarded the
_Olympia_, the flag-ship of the fleet under Commodore Dewey at
Hong-kong, on Wednesday last. Upon reading my credentials the Commodore
immediately surrendered the command of the fleet to me, and retired to
his state-room, where he has since remained. I deemed it well to keep
him there until after the battle was over, fearing lest he should annoy
me with suggestions, and not knowing but that he might at any time
spread dissension among the officers and men, who, after the habit of
seamen, frequently manifest undue affection and sympathy for a deposed
commander. I likewise, according to your wishes, concealed from the
officers and crew the fact that the Commodore had been deposed,
furthering the concealment by myself making up as Dewey. Indeed, it was
not until after the battle this morning that any but Dewey and the
ship's barber were aware of the substitution, since my disguise was
perfect. The ship's barber I had to take into my confidence, for
unfortunately on leaving Hong-kong I had forgotten to provide myself
with a false mustache, so that in concealing the deposition of the
Commodore by myself assuming his personality I was compelled to have the
gentleman's mustache removed from his upper lip and transferred to my
own. This the barber did with neatness and despatch, I having first
chloroformed the Commodore, from whom some resistance might have been
expected, owing to his peculiar temperament. Fortunately the fellow was
an expert wig-maker, and within an hour of the shaving of Dewey I was
provided with a mustache which could not fail to be recognized as the
Commodore's, since it was indeed that very same object. When five
hundred miles at sea I dropped the barber overboard, fearing lest he
should disturb my plans by talking too much. I hated to do it, but in
the interest of the _Whirnal_ I hold life itself as of little
consequence, particularly if it is the life of some one else--and who
knows but the poor fellow was an expert swimmer, and has by this time
reached Borneo or some other bit of dry land? He was alive when I last
saw him, and yelling right lustily. If it so happen that he has swum
ashore somewhere, kindly let me know at your convenience; for beneath a
correspondent's exterior I have a warm heart, and it sometimes troubles
me to think that the poor fellow may have foundered, since the sea was
stressful and the nearest dry point was four hundred and sixty knots
away to S.E. by N.G., while the wind was blowing N.W. by N.Y.C. & H.R.R.
But to my despatch.

Dewey done for, despoiled of his mustache and rifled of his place, with
a heavy sea running and a dense fog listing to starboard, I summoned my
officers to the flag-ship, and, on the evening of April 30th, the
fog-horns of Cavit√© having indicated the approach of the Philippine
coast, gave them, one and all, their final instructions. These were, in
brief, never to do anything without consulting with me.

"To facilitate matters, gentlemen," said I, ordering an extra supply of
grog for the captains, and milk punches for the lieutenants, "we must
connect the various vessels of the fleet with telephone wires. Who will
undertake this perilous duty?"

They rose up as one man, and, with the precision of a grand-opera
chorus, replied: "Commodore"--for they had not penetrated my
disguise--"call upon us. If you will provide the wires and the 'phones,
we will do the rest." And they followed these patriotic words with
cheers for me.

Their heroism so affected me that I had difficulty in frowning upon the
head-butler's suggestion that my glass should be filled again.

"Gentlemen," said I, huskily--for I was visibly affected--"I have
provided for all. I could not do otherwise and remain myself. You will
find ten thousand miles of wire and sixty-six telephones in the larder."

That night every ship in the fleet was provided with telephone service.
I appointed the _Olympia_ to be the central office, so that I might
myself control all the messages, or at least hear them as they passed to
and fro. In the absence of ladies from the fleet, I appointed a somewhat
effeminate subaltern to the post of "Hello Officer," with complete
control over the switch-board. And, as it transpired, this was a very
wise precaution, because the central office was placed in the hold, and
the poor little chap's courage was so inclined to ooze that in the midst
of the fight he was content to sit below the water-line at his post, and
not run about the promenade-deck giving orders while under fire. I have
cabled the President about him, and have advised his promotion. His
heroic devotion to the switch-board ought to make him a naval attach√© to
some foreign court, at least. I trust his bravery will ultimately result
in his being sent to the Paris Exposition as charge d'affaires in the
Erie Canal department of the New York State exhibit.

But to return to my despatch--which from this point must disregard
space and move quickly. Passing Cape Bolinao, we soon reached Subig Bay,
fifty miles from Manila. Recognizing the cape by the crop of hemp on its
brow, I rang up the _Boston_ and the _Concord_.

"Search Subig Bay," I ordered.

"Who's this?" came the answer from the other end.

"Never mind who I am," said I. "Search Subig Bay for Spaniards."

"Hello!" said the _Boston_.

"Who the deuce are you?" cried the _Concord_.

"I'm seventeen-five-six," I replied, with some sarcasm, for that was not
my number.

"I want sixteen-two-one," retorted the _Boston_.

"Ring off," said the _Concord_. "What do you mean by giving me
seventeen-five-six?"

"Hello, _Boston_ and _Concord_," I put in in commanding tones. "I'm
Dewey."

This is the only false statement I ever made, but it was in the
interests of my country, and my reply was electrical in its effect. The
_Boston_ immediately blew off steam, and the _Concord_ sounded all hands
to quarters.

"What do you want, Commodore?" they asked simultaneously.

"Search Subig Bay for Spaniards, as I have already ordered you," I
replied, "and woe be unto you if you don't find any."

"What do you want 'em for, Commodore?" asked the _Boston_.

"To engage, you idiot," I replied, scornfully. "What did you suppose--to
teach me Spanish?"

Both vessels immediately piped all hands on deck and set off. Two hours
later they returned, and the telephone subaltern reported, "No Spaniards
found."

"Why not?" I demanded.

"All gone to Cuba," replied the _Boston_. "Shall we pipe all hands to
Cuba?"

"Wires too short to penetrate without a bust," replied the _Concord_.

"On to Manila!" was my answer. "Ding the torpedoes--go ahead! Give us
Spaniards or give us death!"

These words inspired every ship in the line, and we immediately strained
forward, except the _McCulloch_, which I despatched at once to Hong-kong
to cable my last words to you in time for the Adirondack edition of your
Sunday issue leaving New York Thursday afternoon.

The rest of us immediately proceeded. In a short while, taking advantage
of the darkness for which I had provided by turning the clock back so
that the sun by rising at the usual hour should not disclose our
presence, we turned Corregidor and headed up the Boca Grande towards
Manila. As we were turning Corregidor the telephone-bell rang, and
somebody who refused to give his name, but stating that he was aboard
the _Petrel_, called me up.

"Hello!" said I.

"Is this Dewey?" said the _Petrel_.

"Yes," said I.

"There are torpedoes ahead," said the _Petrel_.

"What of it?" said I.

"How shall we treat 'em?"

"Blow 'em off--to soda water," I answered, sarcastically.

"Thank you, sir," the _Petrel_ replied, as she rang off.

Then somebody from the _Baltimore_ rang me up.

"Commodore Dewey," said the _Baltimore_, "there are mines in the
harbor."

"Well, what of it?" I replied.

"What shall we do?" asked the _Baltimore_.

"Treat them coldly, as they do in the Klondike," said I.

"But they aren't gold-mines," replied the _Baltimore_.

"Then salt 'em," said I, dryly. "Apply for a certificate of
incorporation, water your stock, sell out, and retire."

"Thank you, Commodore," the _Baltimore_ answered. "How many shares shall
we put you down for?"

"None," said I. "But if you'll use your surplus to start a
life-insurance company, I'll take out a policy for forty-eight hours,
and send you my demand note to pay for the first premium."

I mention this merely to indicate to your readers that I felt myself in
a position of extreme peril, and did not forget my obligations to my
family. It is a small matter, but if you will search the pages of
history you will see that in the midst of the greatest dangers the
greatest heroes have thought of apparently insignificant details.

At this precise moment we came in sight of the fortresses of Manila.
Signalling the _Raleigh_ to heave to, I left the flag-ship and jumped
aboard the cruiser, where I discharged with my own hand the
after-forecastle four-inch gun. The shot struck Corregidor, and,
glancing off, as I had designed, caromed on the smoke-stack of the
_Reina Cristina_, the flag-ship of Admiral Montojo. The Admiral,
unaccustomed to such treatment, immediately got out of bed, and,
putting on his pajamas, appeared on the bridge.

[Illustration: A CLEVER CAROM]

"Who smoked our struck-stack?" he demanded, in broken English.

"The enemy," cried his crew, with some nervousness. I was listening to
their words through the megaphone.

"Then let her sink," said he, clutching his brow sadly with his clinched
fist. "Far be it from me to stay afloat in Manila Bay on the 1st of May,
and so cast discredit on history!"

The _Reina Cristina_ immediately sank, according to the orders of the
Admiral, and I turned my attention to the _Don Juan de Austria_. Rowing
across the raging channel to the _Baltimore_, I boarded her and pulled
the lanyard of the port boom forty-two. The discharge was terrific.

"What has happened?" I asked, coolly, as the explosion exploded. "Did we
hit her?"

"We did, your honor," said the Bo's'n's mate, "square in the eye; only,
Commodore, it ain't a her this time--it's a him. It's the _Don Juan
de_--"

"Never mind the sex," I cried. "Has she sank?"

"No, sir," replied the Bo's'n's mate, "she 'ain't sank yet. She's
a-waiting orders."

"Fly signals to sink," said I, sternly, for I had resolved that she
should go down.

They did so, and the _Don Juan de Austria_ immediately disappeared
beneath the waves. Her commander evidently realized that I meant what I
signalled.

"Are there any more of the enemy afloat?" I demanded, jumping from the
deck of the _Baltimore_ to that of the _Concord_.

"No, Commodore," replied the captain of the latter.

"Then signal the enemy to charter two more gunboats and have 'em sent
out. I can't be put off with two boats when I'm ready to sink four," I
replied.

[Illustration: SINKING THE _CASTILLA_]

The _Concord_ immediately telephoned to the Spanish commandant at the
Manila Caf√© de la Paix, who as quickly chartered the _Castilla_ and
the _Velasco_--two very good boats that had recently come in in ballast
with the idea of loading up with bananas and tobacco.

While waiting for these vessels to come out and be sunk, I ordered all
hands to breakfast, thus reviving their falling courage. It was a very
good breakfast, too. We had mush and hominy and potatoes in every style,
beefsteak, chops, liver and bacon, chicken hash, buckwheat cakes and
fish-balls, coffee, tea, rolls, toast, and brown bread.

Just as we were eating the latter the _Castilla_ and _Velasco_ came out.
I fired my revolver at the _Castilla_ and threw a fish-ball at the
_Velasco_. Both immediately burst into flames.

Manila was conquered.

The fleet gone, the city fell. It not only fell, but slid, and by
nightfall Old Glory waved over the citadel.

The foe was licked.

To-morrow I am to see Dewey again.

I think I shall resign to-night.

     P.S.--Please send word to the magazines that all articles by Dewey
     must be written by Me. Terms, $500 per word. The strain has been
     worth it.




X

THE MYSTERY OF PINKHAM'S DIAMOND STUD

     _Being the tale told by the holder of the eleventh ball,
     Mr. Fulton Streete_


"It is the little things that tell in detective work, my dear Watson,"
said Sherlock Holmes as we sat over our walnuts and coffee one bitter
winter night shortly before his unfortunate departure to Switzerland,
whence he never returned.

"I suppose that is so," said I, pulling away upon the very excellent
stogie which mine host had provided--one made in Pittsburg in 1885, and
purchased by Holmes, whose fine taste in tobacco had induced him to lay
a thousand of these down in his cigar-cellar for three years, and then
keep them in a refrigerator, overlaid with a cloth soaked in Ch√¢teau
Yquem wine for ten. The result may be better imagined than described.
Suffice it to say that my head did not recover for three days, and the
ash had to be cut off the stogie with a knife. "I suppose so, my dear
Holmes," I repeated, taking my knife and cutting three inches of the
stogie off and casting it aside, furtively, lest he should think I did
not appreciate the excellence of the tobacco, "but it is not given to
all of us to see the little things. Is it, now?"

"Yes," he said, rising and picking up the rejected portion of the
stogie. "We all see everything that goes on, but we don't all know it.
We all hear everything that goes on, but we are not conscious of the
fact. For instance, at this present moment there is somewhere in this
world a man being set upon by assassins and yelling lustily for help.
Now his yells create a certain atmospheric disturbance. Sound is merely
vibration, and, once set going, these vibrations will run on and on and
on in ripples into the infinite--that is, they will never stop, and
sooner or later these vibrations must reach our ears. We may not know it
when they do, but they will do so none the less. If the man is in the
next room, we will hear the yells almost simultaneously--not quite, but
almost--with their utterance. If the man is in Timbuctoo, the vibrations
may not reach us for a little time, according to the speed with which
they travel. So with sight. Sight seems limited, but in reality it is
not. _Vox populi, vox Dei_. If _vox_, why not _oculus_? It is a simple
proposition, then, that the eye of the people being the eye of God, the
eye of God being all-seeing, therefore the eye of the people is
all-seeing--Q. E. D."

I gasped, and Holmes, cracking a walnut, gazed into the fire for a
moment.

"It all comes down, then," I said, "to the question, who are the
people?"

Holmes smiled grimly. "All men," he replied, shortly; "and when I say
all men, I mean all creatures who can reason."

"Does that include women?" I asked.

"Certainly," he said. "Indubitably. The fact that women _don't_ reason
does not prove that they can't. I _can_ go up in a balloon if I wish to,
but I _don't_. I _can_ read an American newspaper comic supplement, but
I _don't_. So it is with women. Women can reason, and therefore they
have a right to be included in the classification whether they do or
don't."

"Quite so," was all I could think of to say at the moment. The
extraordinary logic of the man staggered me, and I again began to
believe that the famous mathematician who said that if Sherlock Holmes
attempted to prove that five apples plus three peaches made four pears,
he would not venture to dispute his conclusions, was wise. (This was the
famous Professor Zoggenhoffer, of the Leipsic School of Moral Philosophy
and Stenography.--ED.)

"Now you agree, my dear Watson," he said, "that I have proved that we
see everything?"

"Well--" I began.

"Whether we are conscious of it or not?" he added, lighting the gas-log,
for the cold was becoming intense.

"From that point of view, I suppose so--yes," I replied, desperately.

"Well, then, this being granted, consciousness is all that is needed to
make us fully informed on any point."

"No," I said, with some positiveness. "The American people are very
conscious, but I can't say that generally they are well-informed."

I had an idea this would knock him out, as the Bostonians say, but
counted without my host. He merely laughed.

"The American is only self-conscious. Therefore he is well-informed only
as to self," he said.

"You've proved your point, Sherlock," I said. "Go on. What else have you
proved?"

"That it is the little things that tell," he replied. "Which all men
would realize in a moment if they could see the little things--and when
I say 'if they could see,' I of course mean if they could be conscious
of them."

"Very true," said I.

"And I have the gift of consciousness," he added.

I thought he had, and I said so. "But," I added, "give me a concrete
example." It had been some weeks since I had listened to any of his
detective stories, and I was athirst for another.

He rose up and walked over to his pigeon-holes, each labelled with a
letter, in alphabetical sequence.

"I have only to refer to any of these to do so," he said. "Choose your
letter."

"Really, Holmes," said I, "I don't need to do that. I'll believe all you
say. In fact, I'll write it up and _sign my name_ to any statement you
choose to make."

[Illustration: THE LAMP-POSTS WERE TWISTED]

"Choose your letter, Watson," he retorted. "You and I are on terms that
make flattery impossible. Is it F, J, P, Q, or Z?"

He fixed his eye penetratingly upon me. It seemed for the moment as if I
were hypnotized, and as his gaze fairly stabbed me with its intensity,
through my mind there ran the suggestion "Choose J, choose J, choose J."
To choose J became an obsession. To relieve my mind, I turned my eye
from his and looked at the fire. Each flame took on the form of the
letter J. I left my chair and walked to the window and looked out. The
lamp-posts were twisted into the shape of the letter J. I returned, sat
down, gulped down my brandy-and-soda, and looked up at the portraits of
Holmes's ancestors on the wall. They were all J's. But I was resolved
never to yield, and I gasped out, desperately,

"Z!"

"Thanks," he said, calmly. "Z be it. I thought you would. Reflex
hypnotism, my dear Watson, is my forte. If I wish a man to choose Q, B
takes hold upon him. If I wish him to choose K, A fills his mind. Have
you ever observed how the mind of man repels a suggestion and flees to
something else, merely that it may demonstrate its independence of
another mind? Now I have been suggesting J to you, and you have chosen
Z--"

"You misunderstood me," I cried, desperately. "I did not say Z; I said
P."

"Quite so," said he, with an inward chuckle. "P was the letter I wished
you to choose. If you had insisted upon Z, I should really have been
embarrassed. See!" he added. He removed the green-ended box that rested
in the pigeon-hole marked Z, and, opening it, disclosed an emptiness.

"I've never had a Z case. But P," he observed, quietly, "is another
thing altogether."

Here he took out the box marked P from the pigeon-hole, and, opening it,
removed the contents--a single paper which was carefully endorsed, in
his own handwriting, "The Mystery of Pinkham's Diamond Stud."

"You could not have selected a better case, Watson," he said, as he
unfolded the paper and scanned it closely. "One would almost think you
had some pre-vision of the fact."

"I am not aware," said I, "that you ever told the story of Pinkham's
diamond stud. Who was Pinkham, and what kind of a diamond stud was
it--first-water or Rhine?"

"Pinkham," Holmes rejoined, "was an American millionaire, living during
business hours at Allegheny City, Pennsylvania, where he had to wear a
brilliant stud to light him on his way through the streets, which are so
dark and sooty that an ordinary search-light would not suffice. In his
leisure hours, however, he lived at the Hotel Walledup-Hysteria, in New
York, where he likewise had to wear the same diamond stud to keep him
from being a marked man. Have you ever visited New York, Watson?"

"No," said I.

"Well, when you do, spend a little of your time at the
Walledup-Hysteria. It is a hotel with a population larger than that of
most cities, with streets running to and from all points of the compass;
where men and women eat under conditions that Lucullus knew nothing of;
where there is a carpeted boulevard on which walk all sorts and
conditions of men; where one pays one's bill to the dulcet strains of a
string orchestra that woo him into a blissful forgetfulness of its size;
and where, by pressing a button in the wall, you may summon a grand
opera, or a porter who on request will lend you enough money to enable
you and your family to live the balance of your days in comfort. In
America men have been known to toil for years to amass a fortune for the
one cherished object of spending a week in this Olympian spot, and then
to be content to return to their toil and begin life anew, rich only in
the memory of its luxuries. It was here that I spent my time when, some
years ago, I went to the United States to solve the now famous Piano
Case. You will remember how sneak thieves stole a grand piano from the
residence of one of New York's first families, while the family was
dining in the adjoining room. While in the city, and indeed at the very
hotel in which I stopped, and which I have described, Pinkham's diamond
stud disappeared, and, hearing that I was a guest at the
Walledup-Hysteria, the owner appealed to me to recover it for him. I
immediately took the case in hand. Drastic questioning of Pinkham showed
that beyond all question he had lost the stud in his own apartment. He
had gone down to dinner, leaving it on the centre-table, following the
usual course of most millionaires, to whom diamonds are of no particular
importance. Pinkham wanted this one only because of its associations.
Its value, $80,000, was a mere bagatelle in his eyes.

"Now of course, if he positively left it on the table, it must have been
taken by some one who had entered the room. Investigation proved that
the maid, a valet, a fellow-millionaire from Chicago, and Pinkham's
children had been the only ones to do this. The maid and the valet were
above suspicion. Their fees from guests were large enough to place them
beyond the reach of temptation. I questioned them closely, and they
convinced me at once of their innocence by conducting me through the
apartments of other guests wherein tiaras of diamonds and necklaces of
pearls--ropes in very truth--rubies, turquoise, and emerald ornaments of
priceless value, were scattered about in reckless profusion.

"'D' yez t'ink oi'd waste me toime on an eighty-t'ousand-dollar shtood,
wid all dhis in soight and moine for the thrubble uv swipin' ut?" said
the French maid.

[Illustration: HOLMES IN DISGUISE INTERVIEWS WATTLES]

"I acquitted her at once, and the valet similarly proved his innocence,
only with less of an accent, for he was supposed to be English, and not
French, as was the maid, although they both came from Dublin. This
narrowed the suspects down to Mr. Jedediah Wattles, of Chicago, and
the children. Naturally I turned my attention to Wattles. A six-year-old
boy and a four-year-old girl could hardly be suspected of stealing a
diamond stud. So drawing on Pinkham for five thousand dollars to pay
expenses, I hired a room in a tenement-house in Rivington Street--a
squalid place it was--disguised myself with an oily, black, burglarious
mustache, and dressed like a comic-paper gambler. Then I wrote a note to
Wattles, asking him to call, saying that I could tell him something to
his advantage. He came, and I greeted him like a pal. 'Wattles,' said I,
'you've been working this game for a long time, and I know all about
you. You are an ornament to the profession, but we diamond-thieves have
got to combine. Understand?' 'No, I don't' said he. 'Well, I'll tell
you,' said I. 'You're a man of good appearance, and I ain't, but I know
where the diamonds are. If we work together, there's millions in it.
I'll spot the diamonds, and you lift 'em, eh? You can do it,' I added,
as he began to get mad. 'The ease with which you got away with old
Pinky's stud, that I've been trying to pull for myself for years, shows
me that.'

"I was not allowed to go further. Wattles's indignation was great enough
to prove that it was not he who had done the deed, and after he had
thrashed me out of my disguise, I pulled myself together and said, 'Mr.
Wattles, I am convinced that you are innocent.' As soon as he recognized
me and realized my object in sending for him, he forgave me, and, I must
say, treated me with great consideration.

"But my last clew was gone. The maid, the valet, and Wattles were proved
innocent. The children alone remained, but I could not suspect them.
Nevertheless, on my way back to the hotel I bought some rock-candy, and,
after reporting to Pinkham, I asked casually after the children.

[Illustration: "'YOU DID TOO!' SAID POLLY"]

"'They're pretty well,' said Pinkham. 'Billie's complaining a little,
and the doctor fears appendicitis, but Polly's all right. I guess
Billie's all right too. The seventeen-course dinners they serve in the
children's dining-room here aren't calculated to agree with Billie's
digestion, I reckon.'

"'I'd like to see 'em,' said I. 'I'm very fond of children.'

"Pinkham immediately called the youngsters in from the nursery. 'Guess
what I've got,' I said, opening the package of rock-candy. 'Gee!' cried
Billie, as it caught his eye. 'Gimme some!' 'Who gets first piece?' said
I. 'Me!' cried both. 'Anybody ever had any before?' I asked. 'He has,'
said Polly, pointing to Billie. The boy immediately flushed up. ''Ain't,
neither!' he retorted. 'Yes you did, too,' said Polly. '_You swallered
that piece pop left on the centre-table the other night!_' 'Well,
anyhow, it was only a little piece,' said Billie. 'An' it tasted like
glass,' he added. Handing the candy to Polly, I picked Billie up and
carried him to his father.

"'Mr. Pinkham,' said I, handing the boy over, 'here is your diamond. It
has not been stolen; it has merely been swallowed.' 'What?' he cried.
And I explained. The stud mystery was explained. Mr. Pinkham's boy had
eaten it."

Holmes paused.

"Well, I don't see how that proves your point," said I. "You said that
it was the little things that told--"

"So it was," said Holmes. "If Polly hadn't told--"

"Enough," I cried; "it's on me, old man. We will go down to Willis's and
have some Russian caviare and a bottle of Burgundy."

Holmes put on his hat and we went out together. It is to get the money
to pay Willis's bill that I have written this story of "The Mystery of
Pinkham's Diamond Stud."




XI

LANG TAMMAS AND DRUMSHEUGH SWEAR OFF

     _A tale of dialect told by Mr. Berkeley Hights, holder of the
     twelfth ball_


"Hoot mon!"

The words rang out derisively on the cold frosty air of Drumtochty, as
Lang Tammas walked slowly along the street, looking for the residence of
Drumsheugh. The effect was electrical. Tammas stopped short, and turning
about, scanned the street eagerly to see who it was that had spoken. But
the highway was deserted, and the old man shook his stick, as if at an
imaginary foe.

"I'll hoot-mon the dour eediot that's eensoolted a veesitor to
Drumtochty!" he shouted. "I haena brought me faithfu' steck for
naething!" he added.

He glared about, now at this closed window, now at that, as if inviting
his enemy to come forth and be punished, but seeing no signs of life,
turned again to resume his walk, muttering angrily to himself. It was
indeed hardly to be tolerated that he, one of the great characters of
fiction, should be thus jeered at, as he thought, while on a friendly
pilgrimage from Thrums to Drumtochty, the two rival towns in the
affections of the consumers of modern letters; and having walked all the
way from his home at Thrums, Lang Tammas was tired, and therefore in no
mood to accept even a mild affront, much less an insult.

He had scarcely covered ten paces, however, when the same voice, with a
harsh cackling laugh, again broke the stillness of the street:

"Gang awa', gang awa'--ha, ha, ha!"

Tammas rushed into the middle of the way and picked up a stone.

[Illustration: "'HOOT MON!'"]

"Pit your bogie pate oot o' your weendow, me gillie!" he cried. "I'll
gie it a garry crack. Pit it oot, I say! Pit it oot!"

And the old man drew himself back into an attitude which would have
defied the powers of Phidias to reproduce in marble, the stone poised
accurately and all too ready to be hurled.

"Ye ramshackle macloonatic!" he cried. "Standin' in a weendow, where
nane may see, an' heepin' eensoolts on deecint fowk. Pit it oot--pit it
oot--an' get it crackit!"

The reply was instant:

"Gang awa', gang awa'--ha, ha, ha!"

Had Lang Tammas been a creation of Lever, he would at this point have
removed his coat and his hat and thrown them down violently to earth,
and then have whacked the walk three times with the stout stick he
carried in his right hand, as a preliminary to the challenge which
followed. But Tammas was not Irish, and therefore not impulsive. He was
Scotch--as Scotch as ever was. Wherefore he removed his hat, and, after
dusting it carefully, hung it up on a convenient hook; took off his coat
and folded it neatly; picked up his "faithfu' steck," and observed:

"I hae naething to do that's of eemportance. Drumsheugh can wait, an'
sae can ee. Pit it oot, pit it oot! Here I am, an' here I stay until ye
pit it oot to be crackit."

"Gang awa', gang awa'--ha, ha, ha!" came the reply.

Lang Tammas turned on the instant to the sources of the sound. He fixed
his eyes sternly on the very window whence he thought the words had
issued.

"Number twanty-three, saxth floor," he muttered to himself. "I will
call, and then we shall see what we _shall_ see; and if what we see gets
off wi'oot a thorough 'hootin',' then I dinna ken me beezniss."

[Illustration: "A SWEET-FACED NURSE APPEARED"]

Hastily discarding his outward wrath, and assuming such portions of his
garments as went with his society manner, Tammas walked into the lobby
of the apartment-house in which his assumed insulter lived. He pushed
the electric button in, and shortly a sweet-faced nurse appeared.

"Who are you?" she asked.

"Me," said Lang Tammas, somewhat abashed. "I've called too see the head
o' the hoose."

"I am sorry," said the trained nurse, bursting into tears, "but the head
of the house is at the point of death, sir, and cannot see you until
to-morrow. Call around about ten o'clock."

"Hoots an' toots!" sighed Lang Tammas. "Canna we Scuts have e'er a story
wi'oot somebody leein' at the point o' death! It's most affectin', but
doonricht wearin' on the constitootion."

"Was there anything you wished to say to him?" asked the nurse.

"Oh, aye!" returned Lang Tammas. "I dinna ken hoo to deny that I hed
that to say to him, an' to do to him as weel. I'm a vairy truthfu' mon,
young lady, an' if ye must be told, I've called to wring his garry neck
for dereesively gee'in an unoffending veesitor frae Thrums by yelling
deealect at him frae the hoose-tops."

"Are you sure it was here?" asked the nurse, anxiously, the old
gentleman seemed so deeply in earnest.

"Sure? Oh, aye--pairfectly," replied Lang Tammas; but even as he spoke,
the falsity of his impression was proved by the same strident voice that
had so offended before, coming from the other side of the street:

"What a crittur ye are, ye cow! What a crittur ye are!"

"Soonds are hard to place, ma'am," said Lang Tammas, jerking about as if
he had been shot. It was a very hard position for the old man, for, with
the immediate need for an apology to the nurse, there rushed over him an
overwhelming wave of anger. Hitherto it was merely a suspicion that he
was being made sport of that had irritated him, but this last
outburst--"What a crittur ye are, ye cow!"--was convincing evidence that
it was to him that the insults were addressed; for in Thrums it is
history that Hendry and T'nowhead and Jim McTaggart frequently greeted
Lang Tammas's jokes with "Oh, ye cow!" and "What a crittur ye are!" But
the old man was equal to the emergency, and fixing one eye upon the
house opposite and the other upon the sweet-faced nurse, he darted
glances that should kill at his persecutor, and at the same time
apologized for disturbing the nurse. The latter he did gracefully.

"Ye look aweary, ma'am," he said. "An' if the head o' the hoose maun
dee, may he dee immejiately, that ye may rest soon."

And with this, pulling his hat down over his forehead viciously, he
turned and sped swiftly across the way. The nurse gazed anxiously after
him, and in her secret soul wondered if she would not better send for
Jamie McQueen, the town constable. Poor Tammas's eye was really so
glaring, and his whole manner so manifestly that of a man exasperated to
the verge of madness, that she considered him somewhat in the light of
a menace to the public safety. She was not at all reassured, either,
when Tammas, having reached the other side of the street, began
gesticulating wildly, shaking his "faithfu' steck" at the fa√ßade of the
confronting flat-house. But an immediate realization of the condition of
the sick man above led her to forego the attempt to protect the public
safety, and closing the door softly to, she climbed the weary stairs to
the sixth floor, and soon forgot the disturbing trial of the morning in
reading to her patient certain inspiring chapters from the Badminton
edition of _Haggert's Chase of Heretics_, relieved with the lighter
_Rules of Golf; or, Auld Putt Idylls_, by the Rev. Ian McCrockett, one
of the most exquisitely confusing humorous works ever published in the
Highlands.

Lang Tammas meanwhile was addressing an invisible somebody in the
building over the way, and in no uncertain tones.

"If I were not a geentlemon and a humorist," he said, impressively,
agitating his stick nervously at the building front, "I could say much
that nae Scut may say. But were I nae Scut, I'd say this to ye: 'Ye have
all the eelements of a confairmed heeritic. Ye've nae sense of deecint
fun. Ye're not a man for a' that, as most men air--ye're an ass, plain
and simple, wi' naether the plainness nor the simpleecity o' the
individual that Balaam rode. Further--more--'"

What Lang Tammas would have said furthermore had he not been a Scot the
world will never know, for from the other side of the street--farther
along, however--came the squawking voice again:

"Gang awa', gang awa', ye crittur, ye cow! Hoot mon--hoot mon--hoot mon!
Gang awa', gang awa'!" And this was followed by a raucous cry, which
might or might not have been Scottish, but which was, in any event,
distinctly maddening. And even as the previous insults had electrified
poor Tammas, so this last petrified him, and he stood for an
appreciable length of time absolutely transfixed. His mind was a curious
study. His coming had been prompted entirely by the genial spirit which
throbbed beneath his stony Scottish exterior. For a long time he had
been a resident of the most conspicuous Scotch town in all literature,
and he was himself its accepted humorist. Then on a sudden Thrums had a
rival. Drumtochty sprang forth, and in the matter of pathos, if not
humor, ran Thrums hard; and Lang Tammas, attracted to Drumsheugh, had
come this distance merely to pay his respects, and to see what manner of
man the real Drumsheugh was.

[Illustration: TAMMAS MEETS DRUMSHAUGH]

And this was his reception! To be laughed at--he, a Scotch humorist! Had
any one ever laughed at a Scotch humorist before? Never. Was not the
test of humor in Scotland the failure to laugh of the hearer of the
jest? Would Scotch humor ever prove great if not taken seriously? Oh,
aye! Hendry never laughed at his jokes, and Hendry knew a joke when
he saw one. McTaggart never smiled at Lang Tammas; and as for the little
Minister--he knew what was due to the humorist of Thrums, as well as to
himself, and enjoyed the exquisite humor of Tammas with a reserve well
qualified to please the Presbytery and the Congregation.

How long Lang Tammas would have stood petrified no man may say; but just
then who should come along but the person he had come to call
upon--Drumsheugh himself.

"_Knox et pr√¶terea nihil!_" he exclaimed. "What in Glasgie hae we here?"

Lang Tammas turned upon him.

"Ye hae nowt in Glasgie here," he said, sternly. "Ye hae a vairy muckle
pit-oot veesitor, wha hae coom on an airand o' good-will to be gret wi'
eensoolts."

"Eensoolts?" retorted Drumsheugh. "Eensoolts, ye say? An' wha hae bin
eensooltin' ye?"

"That I know nowt of, save that he be a doonricht foo' a-heepin' his
deealect upon me head," said Lang Tammas.

"And wha are ye to be so seensitive o' deealect?" demanded Drumsheugh.

"My name is Lang Tammas--"

"O' Thrums?" cried Drumsheugh.

"Nane ither," said Tammas.

Drumsheugh burst into an uproarious fit of laughter.

"The humorist?" he cried, catching his sides.

"Nane ither," said Tammas, gravely. "And wha are ye?"

"Me? Oh, I'm--Drumsheugh o' Drumtochty," he replied. "Come along hame
wi' me. I'll gie ye that to make the eensoolt seem a compliment."

And the two old men walked off together.

An hour later, on their way to the kirk, Drumsheugh observed that after
the service was over he would go with Lang Tammas and seek out the man
who had insulted him and "gie" him a drubbing, which invitation Tammas
was nothing loath to accept. Reverently the two new-made friends walked
into the kirk and sat themselves down on the side aisle. A hymn was
sung, and the minister was about to read from the book, when the silence
of the church was broken by a shrill voice:

"Hoot mon! Hoot mon!"

Tammas clutched his stick. The voice was the same, and here it had
penetrated the sacred precincts of the church! Nowhere was he safe from
insult. Drumsheugh looked up, startled, and the voice began again:

"Gang awa' a-that, a-that, a-that--gang awa'! Oh, ye crittur! oh, ye
cow!"

And then a titter ran through that solemn crowd; for, despite the
gravity of the situation, even John Knox himself must have smiled. A
great green parrot had flown in at one of the windows, and had perched
himself on the pulpit, where, with front undismayed, he addressed the
minister:

"Gang awa', gang awa'!" he cried, and preened himself. "Hoot mon, gang
awa'!"

"_Knox nobiscum!_" ejaculated Drumsheugh. "It's Moggie McPiggert's
pairrut," and he chuckled; and then, as Lang Tammas realized the
situation, even he smiled broadly. He had been insulted by a parrot
only, and the knowledge of it made him feel better.

The bird was removed and the service proceeded; and later, when it was
over, as the two old fellows walked back to Drumsheugh's house in the
gathering shades of the night, Lang Tammas said:

"I acquet Drumtochty o' its eensoolts, Drumsheugh, but I've lairnt a
lesson this day."

"What's that?" asked Drumsheugh.

"When pairruts speak Scutch deealect, it's time we Scuts gae it oop,"
said Tammas.

"I think so mysel'," agreed Drumsheugh. "But hoo express our thochts?"

"I dinna ken for ye," said Lang Tammas, "but for me, mee speakee heathen
Chinee this timee on."

"Vairy weel," returned Drumsheugh. "Vairy weel; I dinna ken heathen
Chinee, but I hae some acqueentance wi' the tongue o' sairtain
Amairicans, and that I'll speak from this day on--it's vairy weel called
the Bowery eediom, and is a judeecious mixture o' English, Irish, and
Volapeck."

And from that time on Lang Tammas and Drumsheugh spoke never another
word of Scotch dialect; and while Tammas never quite mastered
pidgin-English, or Drumsheugh the tongue of Fadden, they lived happily
ever after, which in a way proves that, after all, the parrot is a
useful as well as an ornamental bird.




XII

CONCLUSION--LIKEWISE MR. BILLY JONES


The cheers which followed the narration of the curious resolve of Lang
Tammas and Drumsheugh were vociferous, and Berkeley Hights sat down with
a flush of pleasure on his face. He construed these as directed towards
himself and his contribution to the diversion of the evening. It never
entered into his mind that the applause involved a bit of subtle
appreciation of the kindness of Tammas and of Drumsheugh to the reading
public in thus declining to give them more of something of which they
had already had enough.

When the cheers had subsided Mr. Jones rose from his chair and
congratulated the club upon its exhibit.

"Even if you have but faintly re-echoed the weaknesses of the strong,"
he said, "you have done well, and I congratulate you. It is not every
man in your walk in life who can write as grammatically as you have
dreamed. I have failed to detect in any one of the stories or poems thus
far read a single grammatical error, and I have no doubt that the
manuscripts that you have read from are gratifyingly free from mistakes
in spelling as well, so that, from a newspaper man's stand-point, I see
no reason why you should not get these proceedings published, especially
if you do it at your own expense.

"I now declare The Dreamers adjourned _sine die_!"

"Not much!" cried the members, unanimously. "Where's your contribution?"

"Out with it, William!" shouted Tom Snobbe. "I can tell by the set of
your coat that you've got a manuscript concealed in your pocket."

"There's nothing ruins the set of a coat more quickly than a rejected
manuscript in the pocket," put in Hudson Rivers. "I've been there
myself--so, as Lang Tammas said, Billy, 'Pit it oot, and get it
crackit.'"

"Well," Jones replied, with a pleased smile, "to tell you the truth,
gentlemen, I had come prepared in case I was called upon; but the hour
is late," he added, after the manner of one who, though willing, enjoyed
being persuaded. "Perhaps we had better postpone--"

"Out with it, old man. It is late, but it will be later still if you
don't hurry up and begin," said Tenafly Paterson.

"Very well, then, here goes," said Jones. "Mine is a ghost-story,
gentlemen, and it is called 'The Involvular Club; or, The Return of the
Screw.' It is, like the rest of the work this evening, imitative, after
a fashion, but I think it will prove effective."

[Illustration: MR. JONES BEGINS]

Mr. Jones hereupon took the manuscript from his bulging pocket and read
as follows:


THE INVOLVULAR CLUB; OR, THE RETURN OF THE SCREW

The story had taken hold upon us as we sat round the blazing hearth of
Lord Ormont's smoking-room, at Castle Aminta, and sufficiently
interfered with our comfort, as indeed from various points of view, not
to specify any one of the many, for they were, after all, in spite of
their diversity, of equal value judged by any standard, not even
excepting the highest, that of Vereker's disturbing narrative of the
uncanny visitor to his chambers, which the reader may recall--indeed,
must recall if he ever read it, since it was the most remarkable
ghost-story of the year--a year in which many ghost-stories of wonderful
merit, too, were written--and by which his reputation was made--or
rather extended, for there were a certain few of us, including Feverel
and Vanderbank and myself, who had for many years known him as a
constant--almost too constant, some of us ventured, tentatively
perhaps, but not the less convincedly, to say--producer of work of a
very high order of excellence, rivalling in some of its more conspicuous
elements, as well as in its minor, to lay no stress upon his subtleties,
which were marked, though at times indiscreetly inevident even to the
keenly analytical, hinging as these did more often than not upon
abstractions born only of a circumscribed environment--circumscribed, of
course, in the larger sense which means the narrowing of a circle of
appreciation down to the select few constituting its essence--the
productions of the greatest masters of fictional style the world has
known, or is likely, in view of present tendencies towards miscalled
romance, which consists solely of depicting scenes in which bloodshed
and murder are rife, soon to know again--it was proper it should, in a
company chosen as ours had been from among the members of The Involvular
Club, with Adrian Feverel at its head, Vereker as its vice-president,
and Lord Ormont, myself, and a number of ladies, including Diana of the
Crossways, and little Maisie--for the child was one of our cares, her
estate was so pitiable a one--Rhoda Fleming, Daisy Miller, and Princess
Cassimassima, one and all, as the reader must be aware, personages--if I
may thus refer to a group of appreciation which included myself--who
knew a good thing when they saw it, which, it may as well be confessed
at once, we rarely did in the raucous fields of fiction outside of,
though possibly at times moderately contiguous to, our own territory,
although it should be said that Miss Miller occasionally manifested a
lamentable lack of regard for the objects for which The Involvular was
formed, by showing herself, in her semi-American way, regrettably direct
of speech and given over not infrequently to an unhappy use of slang,
which we all, save Maisie, who was young, and, in spite of all she knew,
not quite so knowledgeable a young person as some superficial observers
have chosen to believe, sincerely deprecated, and on occasion when it
might be done tactfully, endeavored to mitigate by a reproving glance,
or by a still deeper plunge into nebulous rhetoric, as a sort of
palliation to the Muse of Obscurity, which in our hearts we felt that
good goddess would accept, strove to offset.

    ["Excuse me," said Mr. Tom Snobbe, rising and interrupting the
    reader at this point, "but is that all one sentence, Mr. Jones?"

    "Yes," Jones replied. "Why not? It's perfectly clear in its
    meaning. Aren't you used to long sentences on the Hudson?" he
    added, sarcastically.

    "No," retorted Snobbe; "that is to say, not where I live. I
    believe they have 'em at Sing Sing occasionally. But they never
    get used to them, I'm told."

    "Be quiet, Tom," said Harry Snobbe. "It's bad form to interrupt.
    Let Billy finish his story." Mr. Jones then resumed his
    manuscript.]

A perceptible shudder ran through, or rather rolled over, the group, for
it was corrugating in its quality, bringing forcibly to mind, quite as
much for its chill, too, as for the wrinkling suggestion of its passage
up and down our backs, turned as some of these were towards the fire,
and others towards the steam-radiator, which now and again clicked
startlingly in the dull red glow of the hearth light, augmenting the all
too obvious nervousness of the listeners, the impassive and uninspiring
squares of iron of which certain modern architects of a limited
decorative sense--if, indeed, they have any at all, for the mere use of
corrugated iron in the construction of a fa√ßade would seem not to admit
of an √¶sthetic side to its designer's nature, however ornately
distributed over the surface of an exterior it may be--have chosen to
avail themselves, prompted either by an appalling parsimony on the part
of a client, or for reasons of haste employed for the lack of more
immediately available material, it being an undeniable fact that in some
portions of the world stucco and terracotta, now frequently used in
lieu of more substantial, if not more enduring materials, are difficult
of access, and the use of a speedily obtainable substitute becoming thus
a requirement as inevitable as it is to be regretted, as in the case of
the fruit-market at Venice, standing as it does on the bank of the Grand
Canal, a pile of stark, staring, obtrusive, wrinkling zinc thrusting
itself brazenly into the line of a vision attuned to the most gloriously
towering palazzos, as rich in beauty as in romance, with such
self-sufficiency as to bring tears to the eyes of the most stolidly
unappreciative, of the most coldly un√¶sthetic, or, in short, as some one
has chosen to say, in an essay the title of which and the name of whose
author escape us at this moment, with such complacent vulgarity as to
amount to nothing less than a dastardly blot upon the escutcheon of the
Venetians, which all of their glorious achievements in art, in history,
and in letters can never quite ineradically efface, and alongside of
which the whistling steam-tugs with their belching funnels, which are
by slow degrees supplanting the romantic gondolier with his picturesque
costume and his tender songs of sunny climes in the cab service of the
Bride of the Adriatic, seem quite excusable, or, in any event, not so
unforgivable as to constitute what the Americans would call an infernal
shame.

    [At this point the reader was interrupted again.

    "Hold on a minute, Billy--will you, please?" said Tenafly
    Paterson. "Let's get this story straight. As I understand the
    first sentence somebody told a ghost-story, didn't he?"

    "Yes," replied Jones, a trifle annoyed.

    "And the second sentence means that those who heard it felt
    creepy?"

    "Precisely."

    "Then why the deuce couldn't you have said, 'When So-and-So had
    finished, the company shuddered'?"

    "Because," replied Jones, "I am reading a story which is
    constructed after the manner of a certain school. I'm not reading
    a postal-card or a cable message."

    The reader then resumed.]

Miss Miller, to relieve the strain upon the nerves of those present,
which was becoming unbearably tense--and, in fact, poor Maisie had burst
into tears with the sheer terror of the climax, and had been taken off
to be put to bed by Mrs. Brookenham, who, in spite of many other
qualities, was still a womanly woman at heart, and not wholly deficient
in those little tendernesses, those trifling but ineffable softnesses of
nature, which are at once the chief source of woman's strength and of
her weakness, a fact she was constantly manifesting to us during our
stay at Lord Ormont's, and which we all remarked and in some cases
commented upon, since the discovery had in it some of the qualities of a
revelation--began to sing one of those extraordinary popular songs that
one hears at the music-halls in London, and in the politer and more
refined circles of American society, if indeed there may be said to be
such a thing in a land so new as to be as yet mostly veneer, with little
that is solid in its social substructure, beginning as its constituent
factors do at the top and working downward, rather than choosing the
more natural course of beginning at the bottom and working upward, and
which must materially, one may think, affect the social solidarity of
the nation by retarding its growth and in otherwise interfering with its
healthy, not to say normal development, and which, as the words and
import of it come back to me, was known by the rather vulgar and
vernacular title of "All Coons Look Alike to Me," thus indicating that
the life treated of in the melody, which was not altogether unmusical,
and was indeed as a matter of fact quite fetching in its quality,
running in one's ears for days and nights long after its first hearing,
was that of the negro, and his personal likeness to his other black
brethren in the eyes even of one who was supposed to have been at one
time, prior to the action of the song if not coincidently with it, the
object of his affections.

    [Had Jones not been wholly absorbed in the reading of this
    wonderful story, he might at this moment have heard a slight but
    unmistakable rumbling sound, and have looked up and seen much that
    would have interested him. But, as this kind of a story requires
    for its complete comprehension a complete concentration of mind,
    he did not hear, and so, continuing, did not see.]

[Illustration: HE DID NOT SEE]

Diana was the first to mitigate the silence with comment [he read] a
silence whose depth had only been rendered the more depressing by Miss
Miller's uncalled-for intrusion upon our mood of something that smacked
of a society towards which most of us, in so far as we were able to do
so, had always cultivated a strenuous aloofness, prompted not by any
whelmful sense of our own perfection, latent or obvious, but rather by a
realization on our part that it lacked the essentials that could make of
it an interesting part of the lives of a group given over wholly, or
at least as nearly wholly as the exiguities of existence would permit of
a persistent and continuous devotion, to the contemplation of the
beautiful in art, letters, or any other phase of human endeavor.

"And did his soul never thaw?" Diana asked.

"Never," replied Vanderbank, "It is frozen yet."

       *       *       *       *       *

Here the rumbling sound grew to such volume that, absorbed as he was in
his reading, Jones could no longer fail to hear it. Lowering his
manuscript, he looked sternly upon the company. The rumbling sound was a
chorus, not unmusical, of snores.

_The Dreamers slept._

"Well, I'll be hanged!" cried Jones, angrily, and then he walked over
and looked behind the screen where the stenographer was seated. "I'll
finish it if it takes all night," he muttered. "Just take this down,"
he added to the stenographer; but that worthy never stirred or made
reply. _He too was sleeping._

Jones muttered angrily to himself.

"Very well," he said. "I'll read it to myself, then," and he began
again. For ten minutes he continued, and then on a sudden his voice
faltered; his head fell forward upon his chest, his knees collapsed
beneath him, and he slid inert, and snoring himself, into his chair. The
MS. fluttered to the floor, and an hour later the waiters entering the
room found the club unanimously engaged in dreaming once more.

The Involvular Club was too much for them, even for the author of it,
but whether this was because of the lateness of the hour or because of
the intricacies of the author's style I have never been able to
ascertain, for Mr. Jones is very sore on the point, and therefore
reticent, and as for the others, I cannot find that any of them remember
enough about it to be able to speak intelligently on the subject.

[Illustration: THE STENOGRAPHER SLEPT]

All I do know is what the landlord tells me, and that is that at 5 A.M.
thirteen cabs containing thirteen sleeping souls pursued their thirteen
devious ways to thirteen different houses, thus indicating that the
Dreamers were ultimately adjourned, and, as they have not met since, I
presume the adjournment was, as usual, _sine die_.


THE END

       *       *       *       *       *




  BY A. CONAN DOYLE


  THE REFUGEES. A Tale of Two Continents. Illustrated. Post 8vo, Cloth,
  Ornamental, $1.75.


  THE WHITE COMPANY. Illustrated. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1.75.


  MICAH CLARKE. Illustrated. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1.75; 8vo,
  Paper, 45 cents.


  THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES. Illustrated. Post 8vo, Cloth,
  Ornamental, $1.50.

     CONTENTS: A Scandal in Bohemia, The Red-headed League, A Case of
     Identity, The Boscombe Valley Mystery, The Five Orange Pips, The
     Man with the Twisted Lip, The Blue Carbuncle, The Speckled Band,
     The Engineer's Thumb, The Noble Bachelor, The Beryl Coronet, The
     Copper Beeches.


  MEMOIRS OF SHERLOCK HOLMES. Illustrated. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental,
  $1.50.

     CONTENTS: Silver Blaze, The Yellow Face, The Stock-Broker's Clerk,
     The "Gloria Scott," The Musgrave Ritual, The Reigate Puzzle, The
     Crooked Man, The Resident Patient, The Greek Interpreter, The Navy
     Treaty, The Final Problem.


  THE PARASITE. A Story. Illustrated. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental,
  $1.00.


  THE GREAT SHADOW. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1.00.


  HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS
  NEW YORK AND LONDON

  _Any of the above works will be sent by mail, postage prepaid,
  to any part of the United States, Canada, or Mexico, on receipt
  of the price._




  BY FRANK R. STOCKTON


  THE ASSOCIATE HERMITS. A Novel. Illustrated by A. B. Frost. Post 8vo,
  Cloth, Ornamental, $1.50.

     If there is a more droll or more delightful writer now living than
     Mr. Frank R. Stockton we should be slow to make his acquaintance,
     on the ground that the limit of safety might be passed.... Mr.
     Stockton's humor asserts itself admirably, and the story is
     altogether enjoyable.--_Independent._

     The interest never flags, and there is nothing intermittent about
     the sparkling humor.--_Philadelphia Press._


  THE GREAT STONE OF SARDIS. A Novel. Illustrated by PETER NEWELL. Post
  8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1.50.

     The scene of Mr. Stockton's novel is laid in the twentieth century,
     which is imagined as the culmination of our era of science and
     invention. The main episodes are a journey to the centre of the
     earth by means of a pit bored by an automatic cartridge, and a
     journey to the North Pole beneath the ice of the Polar Seas.
     These adventures Mr. Stockton describes with such simplicity
     and conviction that the reader is apt to take the story in all
     seriousness until he suddenly runs into some gigantic pleasantry of
     the kind that was unknown before Mr. Stockton began writing, and
     realizes that the novel is a grave and elaborate bit of fooling,
     based upon the scientific fads of the day. The book is richly
     illustrated by Peter Newell, the one artist of modern times who
     is suited to interpret Mr. Stockton's characters and situations.


  HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS
  NEW YORK AND LONDON

  _Either of the above works will be sent by mail, postage prepaid,
  to any part of the United States, Canada, or Mexico, on receipt of
  the price._

       *       *       *       *       *




Transcribers Notes:


The following printing mistakes have been corrected:

    Page 116 - question mark removed, comma substituted
    Page 121 - period replaced by comma
    Pages 154, 180 - spurious double quote removed

Also illustrations have been moved to adjust within paragraph breaks.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Dreamers, by John Kendrick Bangs

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DREAMERS ***

***** This file should be named 35374-8.txt or 35374-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/5/3/7/35374/

Produced by Steve Read, Suzanne Shell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
