The Project Gutenberg EBook of Bindle, by Herbert Jenkins

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Bindle
       Some Chapters in the Life of Joseph Bindle

Author: Herbert Jenkins

Release Date: July 26, 2010 [EBook #33261]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BINDLE ***




Produced by Al Haines










BINDLE

  SOME CHAPTERS IN THE
  LIFE OF JOSEPH BINDLE


BY

HERBERT JENKINS



  "Bindle is the greatest Cockney
  that has come into being through
  the medium of literature since
  Dickens wrote Pickwick Papers"
        MR. T. P. O'CONNOR, M.P.



HERBERT JENKINS LIMITED

YORK STREET LONDON S.W.1

1916




  A
  HERBERT
  JENKINS
  BOOK


_Eighteenth Printing Completing 283,711 copies:_



Printed In Great Britain at the Athenæum Printing Works, Redhill.




  TO
  MY MOTHER

  WHO AS HER SON'S
  BEST FRIEND IS
  PROBABLY HIS
  WORST CRITIC




FOREWORD

Some years ago I wrote an account of one of Bindle's "little jokes," as
he calls them, which appeared in _Blackwood's Magazine_.  As a result
the late Mr. William Blackwood on more than one occasion expressed the
opinion that a book about Bindle should be written, and suggested that
I offer it to him for publication.  Other and weighty matters
intervened, and Bindle passed out of my thoughts.

Last year, however, the same suggestion was made from other quarters,
and in one instance was backed up by a material reasoning that I found
irresistible.

A well-known author once assured me that in his opinion the publisher
who wrote books should, like the double-headed ass and five-legged
sheep, be painlessly put to death, preferably by the Society of
Authors, as a menace to what he called "the legitimate."

Authors have been known to become their own publishers, generally, I
believe, to their lasting regret; why, therefore, should not a
publisher become his own author?  At least he would find some
difficulty in proving to the world that his failure was due to
under-advertising.

H. J.

12, ARUNDEL PLACE,
  HAYMARKET, LONDON, S.W.

_August_, 1916.




CONTENTS


CHAPTER

         FOREWORD
     I.  THE BINDLES AT HOME
    II.  A NOCTURNAL ADVENTURE
   III.  THE HYPNOTIC FIASCO
    IV.  THE HEARTYS AT HOME
     V.  BINDLE TRIES A CHANGE OF WORK
    VI.  THE HOTEL CORRIDOR
   VII.  BINDLE COMMITS AN INDISCRETION
  VIII.  THE GREAT CONSPIRACY
    IX.  THE TEMPERANCE FÊTE
     X.  MR. HEARTY PRAYS FOR BINDLE
    XI.  MR. HEARTY BECOMES EXTREMELY UNPOPULAR
   XII.  BINDLE AGREES TO BECOME A MILLIONAIRE
  XIII.  OXFORD'S WELCOME TO BINDLE
   XIV.  MR. HEARTY GIVES A PARTY
    XV.  BINDLE AND THE GERMAN MENACE
   XVI.  THE AMATEUR DETECTIVES
  XVII.  BINDLE MAKES A MISTAKE
 XVIII.  BINDLE ASSISTS IN AN ELOPEMENT
   XIX.  THE SCARLET HORSE COTERIE
    XX.  MILLIE LEAVES HOME
   XXI.  CONCLUSION




BINDLE


CHAPTER I

THE BINDLES AT HOME

"Women," remarked Bindle, as he gazed reflectively into the tankard he
had just drained, "women is all right if yer can keep 'em from marryin'
yer."

"I don't 'old wiv women," growled Ginger, casting a malevolent glance
at the Blue Boar's only barmaid, as she stood smirking at the other end
of the long leaden counter.  "Same as before," he added to the barman.

Joseph Bindle heaved a sign of contentment at the success of his rueful
contemplation of the emptiness of his tankard.

"You're too late, ole sport," he remarked, as he sympathetically
surveyed the unprepossessing features of his companion, where freckles
rioted with spots in happy abandon.  "You're too late, you wi' three
babies 'fore you're twenty-five.  Ginger, you're----"

"No, I ain't!"  There was a note of savage menace in Ginger's voice
that caused his companion to look at him curiously.

"Ain't wot?" questioned Bindle.

"I ain't wot you was goin' to say I was."

"'Ow jer know wot I was goin' to say?"

"'Cos every stutterin' fool sez it; an' blimey I'm goin' to 'ammer the
next, an' I don't want to 'ammer you, Joe."

Bindle pondered a moment, then a smile irradiated his features,
developing into a broad grin.

"You're too touchy, Ginger.  I wasn't goin' to say, 'Ginger, you're
barmy.'"  Ginger winced and clenched his fists.  "I was goin' to say,
'Ginger, you're no good at marriage wi'out tack.  If yer 'ad more tack
maybe yer wouldn't 'ave got married."

Ginger spat viciously in the direction of the spittoon, but his
feelings were too strong for accurate aim.

"The parsons say as marriages is made in 'eaven," growled Ginger.  "Why
don't 'eaven feed the kids?  That's wot I want to know."

Ginger was notorious among his mates for the gloomy view he took of
life.  No one had ever discovered in him enthusiasm for anything.  If
he went to a football match and the team he favoured were beaten, it
was no more than he expected; if they were victorious his comment would
be that they ought to have scored more goals.  If the horse he backed
won, he blamed fate because his stake was so small.  The more beer he
absorbed the more misanthropic he seemed to become.

"Funny coves, parsons," remarked Bindle conversationally; "not as I've
any think to say agin' religion, providin' it's kep' for Sundays and
Good Fridays, an' don't get mixed up wi' the rest of the week."

He paused and lifted the newly-filled tankard to his lips.  Presently
he continued reminiscently:

"My father 'ad religion, and drunk 'isself to death 'keepin' the chill
out.'  Accordin' to 'im, if yer wanted to be 'appy in the next world
yer 'ad to be a sort of 'alf fish in this.  'E could tell the tale, 'e
could, and wot's more, 'e used to make us believe 'im."  Bindle laughed
at the recollection.  "Two or three times a week 'e used to go to
chapel to 'wash 'is sins away,' winter an' summer.  The parson seemed
to 'ave to wash the 'ole bloomin' lot of 'em, and my father never
forgot to take somethink on 'is way 'ome to keep the chill out, 'e was
that careful of 'isself.

"'My life is Gawd's,' 'e used to say, 'an' I must take care of wot is
the Lord's.'  There weren't no spots on my father.  Why, 'e used to wet
'is 'air to prove 'e'd been ''mersed,' as 'e called it.  You'd 'ave
liked 'im, Ginger; 'e was a gloomy sort of cove, same as you."

Ginger muttered something inarticulate, and buried his freckles and
spots in his tankard.  Bindle carefully filled his short clay pipe and
lit it with a care and precision more appropriate to a cigar.

"No," he continued, "I ain't nothink agin' religion; it's the people
wot goes in for it as does me.  There's my brother-in-law, 'Earty by
name, an' my missis--they must make 'eaven tired with their moanin'."

"Wot jer marry 'er for?" grumbled Ginger thickly, not with any show of
interest, but as if to demonstrate that he was still awake.

"Ginger!"  There was reproach in Bindle's voice.  "Fancy you arstin' a
silly question like that.  Don't yer know as _no_ man ever marries any
woman?  If 'e's nippy 'e gets orf the 'ook; if 'e ain't 'e's landed.
You an' me wasn't nippy enough, ole son, an' 'ere we are."

"There's somethin' in that, mate."  There was feeling in Ginger's voice
and a momentary alertness in his eye.

"Well," continued Bindle, "once on the 'ook there's only one thing
that'll save yer--tack."

"Or 'ammerin 'er blue," interpolated Ginger viciously.

"I draws the line there; I don't 'old with 'ammerin' women.  Yer can't
'ammer somethink wot can't 'ammer back, Ginger; that's for furriners.
No, tack's the thing.  Now take my missis.  If yer back-answers 'er
when she ain't feelin' chatty, you're as good as done.  Wot I does is
to keep quiet an' seem sorry, then she dries up.  Arter a bit I'll
whistle or 'um 'Gospel Bells' (that's 'er favourite 'ymn, Ginger) as if
to meself.  Then out I goes, an' when I gets 'ome to supper I takes in
a tin o' salmon, an' it's all over till the next time.  Wi' tack,
'Gospel Bells,' and a tin o' salmon yer can do a rare lot wi' women,
Ginger."

"Wot jer do if yer couldn't whistle or 'um, and if salmon made yer ole
woman sick, same as it does mine; wot jer do then?"  Ginger thrust his
head forward aggressively.

Bindle thought deeply for some moments, then with slow deliberation
said:

"I think, Ginger, I'd kill a slop.  They always 'angs yer for killin'
slops."

There was a momentary silence, as both men drained their pewters, and a
moment after they left the Blue Boar.  They walked along, each deep in
his own thoughts, in the direction of Hammersmith Church, where they
parted, Bindle to proceed to Fulham and Ginger to Chiswick; each to the
mate that had been thrust upon him by an undiscriminating fate.

Joseph Bindle was a little man, bald-headed, with a red nose, but he
was possessed of a great heart, which no misfortune ever daunted.  Two
things in life he loved above all others, beer and humour (or, as he
called it, his "little joke"); yet he permitted neither to interfere
with the day's work, save under very exceptional circumstances.  No one
had ever seen him drunk.  He had once explained to a mate who urged
upon him an extra glass, "I don't put more on me back than I can carry,
an' I do ditto wi' me stomach."

Bindle was a journeyman furniture-remover by profession, and the life
of a journeyman furniture-remover is fraught with many vicissitudes and
hardships.  As one of the profession once phrased it to Bindle, "If it
wasn't for them bespattered quarter-days, there might be a livin' in
it."

People, however, move at set periods, or, as Bindle put it, they "seems
to take root as if they was bloomin' vegetables."  The set periods are
practically reduced to three, for few care to face the inconvenience of
a Christmas move.

Once upon a time family removals were leisurely affairs, which the
contractors took care to spread over many days; now, however, moving is
a matter of contract, or, as Bindle himself expressed it, "Yer 'as to
carry a bookcase under one arm, a spring-mattress under the other, a
pianner on yer back, and then they wonders why yer ain't doin'
somethink wi' yer teeth."

All these things conspired to make Bindle's living a precarious one.
He was not lazy, and sought work assiduously.  In his time he had
undertaken many strange jobs, his intelligence and ready wit giving him
an advantage over his competitors; but if his wit gained for him
employment, his unconquerable desire to indulge in his "little jokes"
almost as frequently lost it for him.

As the jobs became less frequent Mrs. Bindle waxed more eloquent.  To
her a man who was not working was "a brute" or a "lazy hound."  She
made no distinction between the willing and the unwilling, and she
heaped the fire of her burning reproaches upon the head of her luckless
"man" whenever he was unable to furnish her with a full week's
housekeeping.

Bindle was not lazy enough to be unpopular with his superiors, or
sufficiently energetic to merit the contempt of his fellow-workers.  He
did his job in average time, and strove to preserve the middle course
that should mean employment and pleasant associates.

"Lorst yer job?" was a frequent interrogation on the lips of Mrs.
Bindle.

At first Bindle had striven to parry this inevitable question with a
pleasantry; but he soon discovered that his wife was impervious to his
most brilliant efforts, and he learned in time to shroud his
degradation in an impenetrable veil of silence.

Only in the hour of prosperity would he preserve his verbal
cheerfulness.

"She thinks too much o' soap an' 'er soul to make an 'owlin' success o'
marriage," he had once confided to a mate over a pint of beer.  "A
little dirt an' less religion might keep 'er out of 'eaven in the next
world, but it 'ud keep me out of 'ell in this!"

Mrs. Bindle was obsessed with two ogres: Dirt and the Devil.  Her
cleanliness was the cleanliness that rendered domestic comfort
impossible, just as her godliness was the godliness of suffering in
this world and glory in the next.

Her faith was the faith of negation.  The happiness to be enjoyed in
the next world would be in direct ratio to the sacrifices made in this.
Denying herself the things that her "carnal nature" cried out for, she
was filled with an intense resentment that anyone else should continue
to live in obvious enjoyment of what she had resolutely put from her.
Her only consolation was the triumph she was to enjoy in the next
world, and she found no little comfort in the story of Dives and
Lazarus.

The forgiveness of sins was a matter upon which she preserved an open
mind.  Her faith told her that they should be forgiven; but she felt
something of the injustice of it all.  That the sinner, who at the
eleventh hour repenteth, should achieve Paradise in addition to having
drunk deep of the cup of pleasure in this world, seemed to her unfair
to the faithful.

To Mrs. Bindle the world was a miserable place; but, please God! it
should be a clean place, as far as she had the power to make it clean.

When a woman sets out to be a reformer, she invariably begins upon her
own men-folk.  Mrs. Bindle had striven long and lugubriously to ensure
Bindle's salvation, and when she had eventually discovered this to be
impossible, she accepted him as her cross.

Whilst struggling for Bindle's salvation, Mrs. Bindle had not
overlooked the more immediate needs of his body.  For many weeks of
their early married life a tin bath of hot water had been placed
regularly in the kitchen each Friday night that Bindle might be
thorough in his ablutions.

At first Mrs. Bindle had been surprised and gratified at the way in
which Bindle had acquiesced in this weekly rite, but being shrewd and
something of a student of character, particularly Bindle's character,
her suspicions had been aroused.

One Friday evening she put the kitchen keyhole to an illicit use, and
discovered Bindle industriously rubbing his hands on his boots, and,
with much use of soap, washing them in the bath, after which he
splashed the water about the room, damped the towels, then lit his pipe
and proceeded to read the evening paper.  That was the end of the bath
episode.

It was not that Bindle objected to washing; as a matter of fact he was
far more cleanly than most of his class; but to him Mrs. Bindle's
methods savoured too much of coercion.

A great Frenchman has said, "Pour faire quelque chose de grande, il
faut être passioné."  In other words, no wanton sprite of mischief or
humour must be permitted to beckon genius from its predestined path.
Although an entire stranger to philosophy, ignorant alike of the word
and its meaning, Mrs. Bindle had arrived at the same conclusion as the
French savant.

"Why don't you stick at somethin' as if you meant it?" was her way of
phrasing it.  "Look at Mr. Hearty.  See what he's done!"  Without any
thought of irreverence, Mrs. Bindle used the names of the Lord and Mr.
Hearty as whips of scorpions with which on occasion she mercilessly
scourged her husband.

At the time of Bindle's encounter with his onetime work-mate, Ginger,
he had been tramping for hours seeking a job.  He had gone even to the
length of answering an advertisement for a waitress, explaining to the
irritated advertiser that "wi' women it was the customers as did the
waitin'," and that a man was "more nippy than a gal."

Ginger's hospitality had cheered him, and he began to regard life once
more with his accustomed optimism.  He had been without food all day,
and this fact, rather than the continued rebuffs he had suffered,
caused him some misgiving as the hour approached for his return to home
and Mrs. Bindle's inevitable question, "Got a job?"

As he passed along the Fulham Palace Road his keen eye searched
everywhere for interest and amusement.  He winked jocosely at the
pretty girls, and grinned happily when called a "saucy 'ound."  He
exchanged pleasantries with anyone who showed the least inclination
towards camaraderie, and the dour he silenced with caustic rejoinder.

Bindle's views upon the home life of England were not orthodox.

"I'd like to meet the cove wot first started talkin' about the ''appy
'ome life of ole England,'" he murmured under his breath.  "I'd like to
introduce 'im to Mrs. B.  Might sort o' wake 'im up a bit, an' make 'im
want t' emigrate.  I'd like to see 'im gettin' away wi'out a scrap.
Rummy thing, 'ome life."

His philosophy was to enjoy what you've got, and not to bother about
what you hope to get.  He had once precipitated a domestic storm by
saying to Mrs. Bindle:

"Don't you put all yer money on the next world, in case of accidents.
Angels is funny things, and they might sort of take a dislike to yer,
and then the fat 'ud be in the fire."  Then, critically surveying Mrs.
Bindle's manifest leanness, "Not as you an' me together 'ud make much
of a flicker in 'ell."

As he approached Fenton Street, where he lived, his leisurely pace
perceptibly slackened.  It was true that supper awaited him at the end
of his journey--that was with luck; but, luck or no luck, Mrs. Bindle
was inevitable.

"Funny 'ow 'avin' a wife seems to spoil yer appetite," he muttered, as
he scratched his head through the blue-and-white cricket cap he
invariably wore, where the four triangles of alternating white and
Cambridge blue had lost much of their original delicacy of shade.

"I'm 'ungry, 'ungry as an 'awk," he continued; then after a pause he
added, "I wonder whether 'awks marry."  The idea seemed to amuse him.
"Well, well!" he remarked with a sigh, "yer got to face it, Joe," and
pulling himself together he mended his pace.

As he had foreseen, Mrs. Bindle was keenly on the alert for the sound
of his key in the lock of the outer door of their half-house.  He had
scarcely realised that the evening meal was to consist of something
stewed with his much-loved onions, when Mrs. Bindle's voice was heard
from the kitchen with the time-worn question:

"Got a job?"

Hunger, and the smell of his favourite vegetable, made him a coward.

"'Ow jer know, Fairy?" he asked with crude facetiousness.

"What is it?" enquired Mrs. Bindle shrewdly as he entered the kitchen.

"Night watchman at a garridge," he lied glibly, and removed his coat
preparatory to what he called a "rinse" at the sink.  It always pleased
Mrs. Bindle to see Bindle wash; even such a perfunctory effort as a
"rinse" was a tribute to her efforts.

"When d'you start?" she asked suspiciously.

How persistent women were! thought Bindle.

"To-night at nine," he replied.  Nothing mattered with that savoury
smell in his nostrils.

Mrs. Bindle was pacified; but her emotions were confidential affairs
between herself and "the Lord," and she consequently preserved the same
unrelenting exterior.

"'Bout time, I should think," she snapped ungraciously, and proceeded
with her culinary preparations.  Mrs. Bindle was an excellent cook.
"If 'er temper was like 'er cookin'," Bindle had confided to Mrs.
Hearty, "life 'ud be a little bit of 'eaven."

Fenton Street, in which the Bindles lived, was an offering to the
Moloch of British exclusiveness.  The houses consisted of two floors,
and each floor had a separate outer door and a narrow passage from
which opened off a parlour, a bedroom, and a kitchen.  Although each
household was cut off from the sight of its immediate neighbours, there
was not a resident, save those who occupied the end houses, who was not
intimately acquainted with the private affairs of at least three of its
neighbours, those above or below, as the case might be, and of the
family on each side.  The walls and floors were so thin that, when the
least emotion set the voices of the occupants vibrating in a louder key
than usual, the neighbours knew of the crisis as soon as the
protagonists themselves, and every aspect of the dispute or discussion
was soon the common property of the whole street.

Fenton Street suited Mrs. Bindle, who was intensely exclusive.  She
never joined the groups of women who stood each morning, and many
afternoons, at their front doors to discuss the thousand and one things
that women have to discuss.  She occupied herself with her home,
hounding from its hiding-place each speck of dust and microbe as if it
were an embodiment of the Devil himself.

She was a woman of narrow outlook and prejudiced views, hating sin from
a sense of fear of what it might entail rather than as a result of
instinctive repulsion; yet she was possessed of many admirable
qualities.  She worked long and hard in her home, did her duty to her
husband in mending his clothes, preparing his food, and providing him
with what she termed "a comfortable home."

Next to chapel her supreme joy in life was her parlour, a mid-Victorian
riot of antimacassars, stools, furniture, photograph-frames, pictures,
ornaments, and the musical-box that would not play, but was precious as
Aunt Anne's legacy.  Bindle was wont to say that "when yer goes into
our parlour yer wants a map an' a guide, an' even then yer 'as to call
for 'elp before yer can get out."

Mrs. Bindle had no visitors, and consequently her domestic holy of
holies was never used.  She would dust and clean and arrange; arrange,
clean, and dust with untiring zeal.  The windows, although never
opened, were spotless; for she judged a woman's whole character by the
appearance of her windows and curtains.  No religieuse ever devoted
more time or thought to a chapel or an altar than Mrs. Bindle to her
parlour.  She might have reconciled herself to leaving anything else in
the world, but her parlour would have held her a helpless prisoner.

When everything was ready for the meal Mrs. Bindle poured from a
saucepan a red-brown liquid with cubes of a darker brown, which
splashed joyously into the dish.  Bindle recognised it as stewed steak
and onions, the culinary joy of his heart.

With great appetite he fell to, almost thankful to Providence for
sending him so excellent a cook.  As he ate he argued that if a man had
an angel for a wife, in all likelihood she would not be able to cook,
and perhaps after all he was not so badly off.

"There ain't many as can beat yer at this 'ere game," remarked Bindle,
indicating the dish with his fork; and a momentary flicker that might
have been a smile still-born passed across Mrs. Bindle's face.

As the meal progressed Bindle began to see the folly of his cowardice.
He had doomed himself to a night's walking the streets.  He cudgelled
his brains how to avoid the consequences of his indiscretion.  He
looked covertly at Mrs. Bindle.  There was nothing in the sharp
hatchet-like face, with its sandy hair drawn tightly away from each
side and screwed into a knot behind, that suggested compromise.  Nor
was there any suggestion of a relenting nature in that hard grey line
that served her as a mouth.  No, there was nothing for it but to "carry
the banner," unless he could raise sufficient money to pay for a
night's lodging.

"Saw Ginger to-day," he remarked conversationally, as he removed a
shred of meat from a back tooth with his fork.

"Don't talk to me of Ginger!" snapped Mrs. Bindle.

Such retorts made conversation difficult.

It was Mrs. Bindle's question as to whether he did not think it about
time he started that gave Bindle the inspiration he sought.  For more
than a week the one clock of the household, a dainty little travelling
affair that he had purchased of a fellow-workman, it having "sort o'
got lost" in a move, had stopped and showed itself impervious to all
persuasion Bindle decided to take it, ostensibly to a clock-repairer,
but in reality to the pawn-shop, and thus raise the price of a night's
lodging.  He would trust to luck to supply the funds to retrieve it.

With a word of explanation to Mrs. Bindle, he proceeded to wrap up the
clock in a piece of newspaper, and prepared to go out.

To Bindle the moment of departure was always fraught with the greatest
danger.  His goings-out became strategical withdrawals, he endeavouring
to get off unnoticed, Mrs. Bindle striving to rake him with her verbal
artillery as he retreated.

On this particular evening he felt comparatively safe.  He was, as far
as Mrs. Bindle knew, going to "a job," and, what was more, he was
taking the clock to be repaired.  He sidled tactically along the wall
towards the door, as if keenly interested in getting his pipe to draw.
Mrs. Bindle opened fire.

"How long's your job for?"  She turned round in the act of wiping out a
saucepan.

"Only to-night," replied Bindle somewhat lamely.  He was afraid of
where further romancing might lead him.

"Call that a job?" she enquired scornfully.  "How long am I to go on
keepin' you in idleness?"  Mrs. Bindle cleaned the Alton Road Chapel,
where she likewise worshipped, and to this she referred.

"I'll get another job to-morrow; don't be down'earted," Bindle replied
cheerfully.

"Down'earted!  Y' ought to be ashamed o' yerself," exploded Mrs.
Bindle, as she banged the saucepan upon its shelf and seized a broom.
Bindle regarded her with expressionless face.  "Y' ought to be ashamed
o' yerself, yer great hulkin' brute."

At one time Bindle, who was well below medium height and average
weight, had grinned appreciatively at this description; but it had a
little lost its savour by repetition.

"Call yerself a man!" she continued, her sharp voice rising in volume
and key.  "Leavin' me to keep the sticks together--me, a woman too,
a-keepin' you in idleness!  Why, I'd steal 'fore I'd do that, that I
would."

She made vigorous use of the broom.  Her anger invariably manifested
itself in dust, a momentary forgetfulness of her religious convictions,
and a lapse into the Doric.  As a rule she was careful and mincing in
her speech, but anger opened the flood-gates of her vocabulary, and
words rushed forth bruised and decapitated.

With philosophic self-effacement Bindle covered the few feet between
him and the door and vanished.  He was a philosopher and, like
Socrates, he bowed to the whirlwind of his wife's wrath.  Conscious of
having done everything humanly possible to obtain work, he faced the
world with unruffled calm.

Mrs. Bindle's careless words, however, sank deeply into his mind.
Steal!  Well, he had no very strongly-grounded objection, provided he
were not caught at it.  Steal!  The word seemed to open up new
possibilities for him.  The thing was, how should he begin?  He might
seize a leg of mutton from a butcher's shop and run; but then Nature
had not intended him for a runner.  He might smash a jeweller's window,
pick a pocket, or snatch a handbag; but in all these adventures
fleetness of foot seemed essential.

Crime seemed obviously for the sprinter.  To become a burger required
experience and tools, and Bindle possessed neither.  Besides, burgling
involved more risks than he cared to take.

Had he paused to think, Bindle would have seen that stealing was crime;
but his incurable love of adventure blinded him to all else.

"Funny thing," he mumbled as he walked down Fenton Street.  "Funny
thing, a daughter o' the Lord wantin' me to steal.  Wonder wot ole
'Earty 'ud say."




CHAPTER II

A NOCTURNAL ADVENTURE


I

Having exchanged the clock for seven shillings and badly beaten the
pawnbroker's assistant in a verbal duel, Bindle strolled along towards
Walham Green in the happiest frame of mind.

The night was young, it was barely nine o'clock, and his whole being
yearned for some adventure.  He was still preoccupied with the subject
of larceny.  His wits, Bindle argued, were of little or no use in the
furniture-removing business, where mediocrity formed the standard of
excellence.  There would never be a Napoleon of furniture-removers, but
there had been several Napoleons of crime.  If a man were endowed with
genius, he should also be supplied with a reasonable outlet for it.

Walking meditatively along the North End Road, he was awakened to
realities by his foot suddenly striking against something that jingled.
He stooped and picked up two keys attached to a ring, which he swiftly
transferred to one of his pockets and passed on.  Someone might be
watching him.

Two minutes later he drew forth his find for examination.  Attached to
the ring was a metal tablet, upon which were engraved the words: "These
keys are the property of Professor Sylvanus Conti, 13 Audrey Mansions,
Queen's Club, West Kensington, W.  Reward for their return, 2s. 6d."

The keys were obviously those of the outer door of a block of mansions
and the door of a flat.  If they were returned the reward was two
shillings and sixpence, which would bring up the day's takings to nine
shillings and sixpence.  If, on the other hand, the keys were retained
for the purpose of----

At that moment Bindle's eye caught sight of a ticket upon a stall
littered with old locks and keys, above which blazed and spluttered a
paraffin torch.  "Keys cut while you wait," it announced.  Without a
moment's hesitation he slipped the two keys from their ring and held
them out to the proprietor of the stall.

"'Ow much to make two like 'em, mate?" he enquired.  The man took the
keys, examined them for a moment, and replied:

"One an' thruppence from you, capt'in."

"Well, think o' me as a pretty girl an' say a bob, an' it's done,"
replied Bindle.

The man regarded him with elaborate gravity for a few moments.  "If yer
turn yer face away I'll try," he replied, and proceeded to fashion the
duplicates.

Meanwhile Bindle deliberated.  If he retained the keys there would be
suspicion at the flats, and perhaps locks would be changed; if, on the
other hand, the keys were returned immediately, the owner would trouble
himself no further.

At this juncture he was not very clear as to what he intended to do.
He was still undecided when the four keys were handed to him in return
for a shilling.

The mind of Joseph Bindle invariably responded best to the
ministrations of beer, and when, half an hour later, he left the bar of
the Purple Goat, his plans were formed, and his mind made up.  He
vaguely saw the hand of Providence in this discovery of Professor
Conti's keys, and he was determined that Providence should not be
disappointed in him, Joseph Bindle.

First he bought a cheap electric torch, guaranteed for twelve or
twenty-four hours--the shopkeeper was not quite certain which.  Then,
proceeding to a chemist's shop, he purchased a roll of medical
bandaging.  With this he retired up a side street and proceeded to
swathe his head and the greater part of his face, leaving only his
eyes, nose, and mouth visible.  Drawing his cap carefully over the
bandages, he returned to the highway, first having improvised the
remainder of the bandaging into an informal sling for his left arm.
Not even Mrs. Bindle herself would have recognised him, so complete was
the disguise.

Ten minutes later he was at Audrey Mansions.  No one was visible, and
with great swiftness and dexterity he tried the duplicate keys in the
open outer door.  One fitted perfectly.  Mounting to the third floor,
he inserted the other in the door of No. 13.  The lock turned easily.
Quite satisfied, he replaced them in his pocket and rang the bell.
There was no answer.  He rang again, and a third time, but without
result.

"Does 'is own charin'," murmured Bindle laconically, and descended to
the ground floor, where he rang the porter's bell, with the result that
the keys were faithfully redeemed.

Bindle left the porter in a state of suppressed excitement over a vivid
and circumstantial account of a terrible collision that had just taken
place in the neighbourhood, between a motor-bus and a fire-engine,
resulting in eleven deaths, including three firemen, whilst thirty
people had been seriously injured, including six firemen.  He himself
had been on the front seat of the motor-bus and had escaped with a
broken head and a badly-cut hand.


II

Professor Conti did not discover his loss until the porter handed him
his keys, enquiring at the same time if the Professor had heard
anything of the terrible collision between the motor-bus and
fire-engine.  The Professor had not.  He mounted to his flat with heavy
steps.  He was tired and dispirited.  In his bedroom he surveyed
himself mournfully in the mirror as he undid the buckle of his
ready-made evening-tie, which he placed carefully in the green
cardboard box upon the dressing-table.  In these days a tie had to last
the week, aided by the application of French chalk to the salient folds
and corners.

Professor Sylvanus Conti, who had been known to his mother, Mrs.
Wilkins, as Willie, emphasised in feature and speech his cockney
origin.  He was of medium height, with a sallow complexion--not the
sallowness of the sun-baked plains of Italy, but rather that of
Bermondsey or Bow.

He had been a brave little man in his fight with adverse conditions.
Years before, chance had thrown across his path a doctor whose hypnotic
powers had been his ruin.  Willie Wilkins had shown himself an apt
pupil, and there opened out to his vision a great and glorious prospect.

First he courted science; but she had proved a fickle jade, and he was
forced to become an entertainer, much against his inclination.  In time
the name of Professor Sylvanus Conti came to be known at most of the
second-rate music halls as "a good hypnotic turn"--to use the
professional phraseology.

One consolation he had--he never descended to tricks.  If he were
unable to place a subject under control, he stated so frankly.  He was
scientific, and believed in his own powers as he believed in nothing
else on earth.

He had achieved some sort of success.  It was not what he had hoped
for; still, it was a living.  It gave him food and raiment and a small
bachelor flat--he was a bachelor, all self-made men are--in a spot that
was Kensington, albeit West Kensington.

The Professor continued mechanically to prepare himself for the night.
He oiled his dark hair, brushed his black moustache, donned his long
nightshirt, and finally lit a cigarette.  He was thinking deeply.  His
dark, cunning little eyes flashed angrily.  A cynical smile played
about the corners of his mouth, half hidden by the bristly black
moustache.

Only that evening he had heard that his rival, "Mr. John Gibson, the
English Mesmerist," had secured a contract to appear at some syndicate
halls that had hitherto engaged only him.

This man Gibson had been dogging Conti for months past.  The barefaced
effrontery of the fellow added fuel to the fire of his rival's anger.
To use an English name for a hypnotic turn upon the English music-hall
stage!  He should have known that hypnotism, like the equestrian and
dressmaking arts, is continental, without exception or qualification.
Yet this man, John Gibson, "the English Mesmerist," had dared to enter
into competition with him, Professor Sylvanus Conti.  Gibson descended
to tricks, which placed him beyond the pale of science.  He had
confederates who, as "gentlemen among the audience," did weird and
marvellous things, all to the glory of "the English Mesmerist."

Still brooding upon a rather ominous future, the Professor wound his
watch--a fine gold hunter that had been presented to him three years
previously by "A few friends and admirers"--and placed it upon the
small table by his bedside, together with his money and other
valuables; then, carefully extinguishing his half-smoked cigarette, he
got into bed.  It was late, and he was tired.  A sense of injustice was
insufficient to keep him awake for long, and, switching off the
electric light, he was soon asleep.

From a dream in which he had just discomfited his rival, "the English
Mesmerist," by placing under control an elephant, Professor Conti
awakened with a start.  He intuitively knew that there was someone in
the room.  Lying perfectly still, he listened.  Suddenly his blood
froze with horror.  A tiny disc of light played round the room and
finally rested upon the small table beside him.  A moment later he
heard a faint sound as of two substances coming into contact.
Instinctively he knew it to be caused by his watch-chain tinkling
against his ash-tray.

He broke out into a cold sweat.  Moist with fear, he reviewed the
situation.  A burglar was in the room, taking his--the
Professor's--presentation watch and chain.  The thought of losing
these, his greatest treasures, awakened in his mind the realisation
that he must act, and act speedily.  With a slow, deliberate movement
he worked his right hand up to the pillow, beneath which he always kept
a revolver.  It seemed an eternity before he felt the comforting touch
of cold metal.  He withdrew the weapon with deliberate caution.

The sound of someone tiptoeing about the room continued--soft, stealthy
movements that, however, no longer possessed for him any terror.  A
fury of anger, a species of blood-lust gripped him.  Someone had dared
to break into his flat.  The situation became intolerable.  With one
swift movement he sat up, switched on the electric light, and cocked
his revolver.

An inarticulate sound, half-cry, half-grumble, came from the corner by
the chest of drawers.  The back of the head, looking curiously like a
monkish crown, flashed into a face, swathed in what appeared to be
medical bandages, through which was to be seen a pair of eyes in which
there was obvious terror.  It was Bindle.

"Hands up, or I shoot!  Up, I say."

Up went Bindle's hands.

The Professor did not recognise his own voice.  Suddenly he laughed.
The ludicrous expression in Bindle's eyes, the unnatural position in
which he crouched, his having caught a burglar red-handed--it was all
so ridiculous.

Then there came the triumphant sense of victory.  The Professor was
calm and collected now, as if the discovery of a burglar in his bedroom
were a thing of nightly occurrence.  There seemed nothing strange in
the situation.  The things to be done presented themselves in obvious
and logical sequence.  He was conscious of the dramatic possibilities
of the situation.

Not so Bindle.

"This comes o' takin' advice of a 'daughter o' the Lord,'" he groaned.
"Wonder wot 'Earty'll say?"

In spite of his situation Bindle grinned.

"Turn round and face the wall, quick!"

It was the Professor's voice that broke in upon Bindle's thoughts.  He
obeyed with alacrity and the tonsured scalp reappeared.

Carefully covering with his revolver the unfortunate Bindle, whose
first effort at burglary seemed doomed to end so disastrously,
Professor Conti slipped out of bed and, without removing his eyes from
Bindle's back, sidled towards a small chest at the other side of the
room.  This he opened, and from it took a pair of handcuffs, a
"property" of his profession.

"Put your hands behind your back," he ordered with calm decision.

For one brief moment Bindle meditated resistance.  He gave a swift
glance over his shoulder; but, seeing the determined look in his
captor's eyes and the glint of the revolver, he thought better of it
and meekly complied.

The handcuffs clicked and Professor Conti smiled grimly.

As he stood gazing at the wall, Bindle's mind was still running on what
Mrs. Bindle would say when she heard the news.  Fate had treated him
scurvily in directing him to a flat where a revolver and handcuffs
seemed to be part of the necessary fittings.  He fell to wondering what
punishment novices at burglary generally received.

He was awakened from his reverie and the contemplation of a
particularly hideous wallpaper, by a sharp command to turn round.  He
did so, and found himself facing a ludicrous and curiously unheroic
figure.  Over his nightshirt Professor Conti had drawn an overcoat with
an astrachan collar and cuffs.  Beneath the coat came a broad hem of
white nightshirt, then two rather thin legs, terminating in a pair of
red woollen bedroom slippers.

Bindle grinned appreciatively at the spectacle.  He was more at his
ease now that the revolver had been laid aside.

"You're a burglar, and you're caught."

The Professor showed his yellow teeth as he made this pronouncement.
Bindle grinned.  "You'll get five years for this," proceeded the
Professor encouragingly.

"I was just wonderin' to meself," responded Bindle imperturbably.  "The
luck's wi' you, guv'nor," he added philosophically.  "Fancy you 'avin'
'andcuffs as well as a revolver!  Sort o' Scotland Yard, this 'ere
little 'ole.  'Spose you get a touch of nerves sometimes, and likes to
be ready.  Five years, you said.  Three was my figure.  P'raps you're
right; it all depends on the ole boy on the bench.  Ever done time,
sir?" he queried cheerfully.

Professor Conti was too intent upon an inspiration that had flashed
upon him to listen to his visitor's remarks.  Suddenly he saw in this
the hand of Providence, and at that moment Bindle saw upon the chest of
drawers one of the Professor's cards bearing the inscription:

  PROFESSOR SYLVANUS CONTI,
  _Hypnotist and Mesmerist._

  13 AUDREY MANSIONS,
    QUEEN'S CLUB,
      WEST KENSINGTON,
        LONDON, W.


He turned from the contemplation of the card, and found himself being
regarded by his captor with great intentness.  The ferret-like eyes of
the Professor gazed into his as if desirous of piercing a hole through
his brain.  Bindle experienced a curious dreamy sensation.  Remembering
the card he had just seen, he blinked self-consciously, licked his
lips, grinned feebly, and then half closed his eyes.

Professor Conti advanced deliberately, raised his hands slowly, passed
them before the face of his victim, keeping his eyes fixed the while.
Over the unprepossessing features of Bindle there came a vacant look,
and over those of the Professor one of triumph.  After a lengthy pause
the Professor spoke.

"You are a burglar.  Repeat it."

"I am a burglar," echoed Bindle in a toneless voice.

The Professor continued: "You tried to rob me, Professor Sylvanus
Conti, of 13 Audrey Mansions, Queen's Club, West Kensington, by
breaking into my flat at night."

In the same expressionless voice Bindle repeated the Professor's words.

"Good," murmured Conti.  "Good!  Now sit down."  Bindle complied, a
ghost of a grin flitting momentarily across his face, as the Professor
turned to reach a chair which he placed immediately opposite to the one
on which Bindle sat, and about two yards distant.  With his eyes fixed,
he commenced in a droning tone:

"You have entered my flat with the deliberate and cold-blooded
intention of robbing, perhaps of murdering me.  It is my intention to
write a note to the police, which you will yourself deliver, and wait
until you are arrested.  Now repeat what I have said."

In a dull, mechanical voice Bindle did as he was told.  For a full
minute the Professor gazed steadily into his victim's eyes, made a few
more passes with his hands, and then, rising, went to a small table and
wrote:


DEAR SIR,

The bearer of this letter is a burglar who has just broken into my flat
to rob me.  I have placed him under hypnotic control, and he will give
himself up.  You will please arrest him.  I will 'phone in the morning.

Yours faithfully,
  SYLVANUS CONTI.


Sealing and addressing the letter, the Professor then removed the
handcuffs from Bindle's wrists, bade him rise, and gave him the
envelope.

"You will now go and deliver this note," he said, explaining with great
distinctness the whereabouts of the police-station.  Bindle was
proceeding slowly towards the door, when the Professor called upon him
to stop.  He halted abruptly.  "Show me what you have in your pockets."

Bindle complied, producing the presentation watch and chain, a gold
scarf-pin, a pair of gold sleeve-links, one diamond and three gold
studs, and a diamond ring.  He omitted to include the Professor's loose
change, which he had picked up from the small table by the bedside.

For a moment the Professor pondered; then, as if coming to a sudden
determination, he told Bindle to replace the articles in his pocket,
and dismissed him.

Having bolted the door, Professor Conti returned to his bedroom.  For
half an hour he sat in his nondescript costume, smoking cigarettes.  He
was thoroughly satisfied with the night's work.  It had been ordained
that his flat should be burgled, and he, Sylvanus Conti, professor of
hypnotism and mesmerism, seizing his opportunity, had diverted to his
own ends the august decrees of destiny.

He pictured Mr. William Gibson reading the account of his triumph in
the evening papers.  He saw the headlines.  He himself would inspire
them.  He saw it all.  Not only would those come back who had forsaken
him for "the English Mesmerist," but others also would want him.  He
saw himself a "star turn" at one of the West-end halls.

He saw many things: fame, fortune, a motor-car, and, in the far
distance, the realisation of his great ambition, a scientific career.
In a way he was a little sorry for the burglar, the instrument of fate.

Throwing off his overcoat and removing his slippers, the Professor
switched off the light, got into bed, and was soon asleep.




CHAPTER III

THE HYPNOTIC FIASCO


I

Whilst Professor Conti was building elaborate castles in the air,
Bindle with tense caution crept down the three flights of stairs that
led to the street.

Everything was quiet and dark.  As he softly closed the outer door
behind him he heard a clock striking three.  Swiftly he removed the
bandages that swathed his head, tucked them in his pockets and stepped
out briskly.

He wanted to think, but above all he wanted food and drink.

As a precaution against the attentions of the police he began to
whistle loudly.  None, he argued, would suspect of being a burglar a
man who was whistling at the stretch of his power.  Once he stopped
dead and laughed.

"Joe Bindle," he remarked, "you been burglin', and you're mesmerised,
an' you're goin' to give yerself up to the police, an' don't you forget
it, as it might 'urt the Professor's feelings."

He slapped his knee, laughed again, recommenced whistling, and
continued on his way.

Occasionally his hand would wander in the direction of the left-hand
pocket of his coat, when, feeling the Professor's watch and chain and
the note to the police, his face would irradiate joy.

He _must_ think, however.  He could not continue walking and whistling
for ever.  He must think; and with Bindle to think it was necessary
that he should remain still.  This he dare not do for fear of arousing
suspicion.

Once in turning a corner suddenly he almost collided with a policeman.

"Tryin' to wake the whole place?" enquired the policeman.  "Where are
you goin', makin' such a row about it?"

"To 'ell, same as you, ole sport," responded Bindle cheerfully.
"Goo'-night!  See yer later!"

The policeman grumbled something and passed on.  Presently Bindle saw
the lights of a coffee-stall, towards which he walked briskly.  Over
two sausages and some bacon he reviewed the situation, chaffed the
proprietor, and treated to a meal the bedraggled remnants of what had
once been a woman, whom he found hovering hungrily about the stall.

When he eventually said "Good-mornin'" to his host and guest, he had
worked out his plan of campaign.

He walked in the direction of the police-station, having first resumed
his bandages.  Day was beginning to break.  Seeing a man approaching
him, he quickened his pace to a run.  As he came within a few yards of
the man, who appeared to be of the labourer class, he slackened his
pace, then stopped abruptly.

"Where's the police-station, mate?" he enquired, panting as if with
great exertion.

"The police-station?" repeated the man curiously.  "Straight up the
road, then third or fourth to the right, then----"

"Is it miles?" panted Bindle.

"'Bout quarter of a mile, not more.  What's up, mate?" the man
enquired.  "Been 'urt?"

"Quarter of a mile, and 'im bleedin' to death!  I got to fetch a
doctor," Bindle continued.  Then, as if with sudden inspiration, he
thrust Professor Conti's letter into the astonished man's hands.

"In the name of the law I order yer to take this letter to the
police-station.  I'll go for a doctor.  Quick--it's burglary and
murder!  'Ere's a bob for yer trouble."

With that, Bindle sped back the way he had come, praying that no
policeman might see him and give chase.

The workman stood looking stupidly from the letter and the shilling in
his hand to the retreating form of Bindle.  After a moment's hesitation
he pocketed the coin, and with a grumble in his throat and the fear of
the Law in his heart, he turned and slowly made his way to the
police-station.


II

When Professor Conti awoke on the morning of the burglary, he was
horrified to find, from the medley of sounds without, produced by
hooters and bells, that it was half-past eight.

Jumping quickly out of bed, he shaved, washed, and dressed with great
expedition, and before nine was in a telephone call-box ringing up the
police.  On learning that his note had been duly delivered, he smiled
his satisfaction into the telephone mouthpiece.

Fortunately he was known to the sergeant who answered him, having
recently given his services at an entertainment organised by the local
police.  After some difficulty he arranged that the charge should be
taken through the telephone, although a most irregular proceeding.

"He's givin' us a lot of trouble, sir.  Talks of having been given the
note, and about a burglary and attempted murder," volunteered the
sergeant.

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the Professor.

"Ha, ha, ha!" echoed the sergeant, and they rang off.

In spite of his laugh, the Professor was a little puzzled by the
sergeant's words.  The man should still be under control.  However, he
reasoned, the fellow was caught, and he had other and more important
things to occupy his mind.  Hailing a passing taxi, he drove to the
offices of _The Evening Mail_.  Sending up his card with the words
IMPORTANT NEWS written upon it, he gained immediate access to the
news-editor.

Within ten minutes the story of the hypnotised burglar was being
dictated by the editor himself to relays of shorthand writers.  The
police had, on the telephone, confirmed the story of a man having given
himself up, and the whole adventure was, in the argot of Fleet Street,
"hot stuff."

By half-past eleven the papers were selling in the streets, and the
Professor was on his way to the police-court.  He had been told the
case would not come on before twelve.  As his taxi threaded its way
jerkily westward, he caught glimpses of the placards of the noon
edition of _The Evening Mail_, bearing such sensational lines as:

  MESMERISM EXTRAORDINARY

  AN AMAZING CAPTURE

  ALLEGED BURGLAR HYPNOTISED


He smiled pleasantly as he pictured his reception that evening, as an
extra turn, at one of the big music-halls.

He fell to speculating as to how much he should demand, and to which
manager he should offer his services.  "The Napoleon of Mesmerists,"
was the title he had decided to adopt.  Again the Professor smiled
amiably as he thought of the column of description with headlines in
_The Evening Mail_.  He had indeed achieved success.


III

The drowsy atmosphere of the West London Police Court oppressed even
the prisoners.  They came, heard, and departed; protagonists for a few
minutes in a drama, then oblivion.  The magistrate was cross, the clerk
husky, and the police anxiously deferential, for one of their number
had that morning been severely censured for being unable to
discriminate between the effects upon the human frame of laudanum and
whisky.

Nobody was interested--there was nothing in which to be interested--and
there was less oxygen than usual in the court, the magistrate had a
cold.  It was a miserable business, this detection and punishing of
crime.

"Twenty shillings costs, seven days," snuffled the presiding genius.

A piece of human flotsam faced about and disappeared.

Another name was called.  The sergeant in charge of the new case
cleared his throat.  The magistrate lifted his handkerchief to his
nose, the clerk removed his spectacles to wipe them, when something
bounded into the dock, drawing up two other somethings behind it.

The magistrate paused, his handkerchief held to his nose, the clerk
dropped his spectacles, the three reporters became eagerly alert--in
short, the whole court awakened simultaneously from its apathy to the
knowledge that this was a dramatic moment.

In the dock stood a medium-sized man with nondescript features, a thin
black moustache, iron-grey hair, and dishevelled clothing.  Each side
of him stood a constable gripping an arm--they were the somethings that
had followed him into the dock.

For a moment the prisoner, who seemed to radiate indignation, looked
about him, his breath coming in short, passionate sobs.

The clerk stooped to pick up his glasses, the magistrate blew his nose
violently to gain time, the reporters prepared to take notes.  Then the
storm burst.

"You shall pay for this, all of you!" shouted the man in the dock,
jerking his head forward to emphasise his words, his arms being firmly
held straight to his sides.  "Me a burglar--me?" he sobbed.

"Silence in the court!" droned the clerk, who, having found his
glasses, now began to read the charge-sheet, detailing how the prisoner
had burglariously entered No. 13 Audrey Mansions, Queen's Club, in the
early hours of that morning.  He was accustomed and indifferent to
passionate protests from the dock.

The prisoner breathed heavily.  The clerk was detailing how the
prisoner had awakened the occupant of the premises by lifting his gold
watch from the table beside the bed.  At this juncture the prisoner
burst out again:

"It's a lie, it's a lie, an' you all know it!  It's a plot!
I'm--I'm----"  He became inarticulate, sobs of impotent rage shaking
his whole body, and the tears streaming down his face.

At that moment Professor Sylvanus Conti entered the court, smiling and
alert.  He looked quickly towards the dock to see if his case had come
on, and was relieved to find that his last night's visitor was not
there.  He had feared being late.

The magistrate cleared his throat and addressed the prisoner:

"You are harming your case by this exhibition.  If a mistake has been
made you have nothing to fear; but if you continue these interruptions
I shall have to send you back to the cells whilst your case is heard."

Turning to the officer in charge of the case, he enquired:

"Is the prosecutor present?"

The sergeant looked round, and, seeing Professor Conti, replied that he
was.

"Let him be sworn," ordered the magistrate.

To his astonishment, Professor Conti heard his name called.  Thoroughly
bewildered, he walked in the direction in which people seemed to expect
him to walk.  He took the oath, with his eyes fixed, as if he were
fascinated, upon the pathetic figure in the dock.  Suddenly he became
aware that the man was addressing him.

"Did I do it?--did I?" he asked brokenly.

"Silence in the court!" called the clerk.

Suddenly the full horror of the situation dawned upon the Professor.
He broke out into a cold sweat as he stood petrified in the
witness-box.  Somehow or other his plan had miscarried.  He looked
round him.  Instinctively he thought of flight.  He felt that he was
the culprit, the passionate, eager creature in the dock his accuser.

"Am I the man?" he heard the prisoner persisting.  "Am I?"

"N-no," he faltered in a voice he could have sworn was not his own.

"You say that the prisoner is not the man who entered your flat during
the early hours of this morning?" questioned the magistrate.

"No, sir, he's not," replied Conti wearily, miserably.  What had
happened?  Was he a failure?

"Please explain what happened," ordered the magistrate.

Conti did so.  He told how he had been awakened, and how he conceived
the idea of hypnotising the burglar and making him give himself up to
the police.

The prisoner was then sworn and related how he had been commanded in
the name of the law to deliver the note at the police-station; how he
had done so, and had been promptly arrested; how he had protested his
innocence, but without result.

The Professor listened to the story in amazement, and to the subsequent
remarks of the magistrate upon quack practices and police methods with
dull resignation.

He did not, however, realise the full horror of the catastrophe that
had befallen him until five minutes after leaving the court, when he
encountered a newsvendor displaying a placard of _The Evening Mail_
bearing the words:

  PROFESSOR CONTI'S GREAT HYPNOTIC FEAT

  CAPTURE OF AN ALLEGED BURGLAR


He then saw that he had lost his reputation, his belief in his own
powers, his living, and about fifty pounds' worth of property.

When he reached his flat late in the afternoon, he was astonished to
find awaiting him a small packet that had come by post, which contained
the whole of the missing property, even down to the small change, also
the two duplicate keys that Bindle had caused to be fashioned.

"I'm a bloomin' poor burglar," Bindle had assured himself cheerfully as
he dropped the parcel containing the proceeds of his "burglary" into a
pillar-box, "a-returnin' the swag by post.  I got to be careful wot
sort o' little jokes I goes in for in future."


IV

That evening Joseph Bindle sat at home in his favourite chair reading
with great relish _The Evening Post's_ account of THE GREAT HYPNOTIC
FIASCO.  Being at bitter enmity with _The Evening Mail_, the _Post_ had
given full rein to its sense of the ludicrous.

Puffing contentedly at a twopenny cigar, Bindle enjoyed to the full the
story so ably presented; but nothing gave him so much pleasure as the
magistrate's closing words.  He read them for the fourth time:

"Professor Conti sought advertisement; he has got it.  Unfortunately
for him, he met a man cleverer than himself, one who is something of a
humorist."  Bindle smiled appreciatively.  "The conduct of the police
in this case is reprehensible to a degree, and they owe it to the
public to bring the real culprit to justice."

With great deliberation Bindle removed his cigar from his mouth, placed
the forefinger of his right hand to the side of his nose, and winked.

"Seem to be pleased with yourself," commented Mrs. Bindle acidly, as
she banged a plate upon the table.  To her, emphasis was the essence of
existence.

"You've 'it it, Mrs. B., I _am_ pleased wi' meself," Bindle replied.
He felt impervious to any negative influence.

"What's happened, may I ask?"

"A lot o' things 'ave 'appened, an' a lot of things will go on
'appenin' as long as your ole man can take an 'int.  You're a wonderful
woman, Mrs. B., more wonderful than yer know; but yer must give 'em
some nasty jars in 'eaven now and then."

Bindle rose, produced from his pocket the tin of salmon that inevitably
accompanied any endeavour on his part to stand up to Mrs. Bindle, then
picking up a jug from the dresser he went out to fetch the supper beer,
striving at one and the same time to do justice to "Gospel Bells" and
his cigar.




CHAPTER IV

THE HEARTYS AT HOME

The atmosphere of the Hearty ménage was one of religious gloom.  To Mr.
Hearty laughter and a smiling face were the attributes of the ungodly.
He never laughed himself, and his smile was merely the baring of a
handful of irregular yellow teeth, an action that commenced and ended
with such suddenness as to cast some doubt upon its spontaneity.

He possessed only two interests in life--business and the chapel, and
one dread--his wife's brother-in-law, Joseph Bindle.  As business was
not a thing he cared to discuss with his wife or eighteen-year-old
daughter, Millie, the one topic of conversation left was the chapel.

Mr. Hearty was a spare man of medium height, with a heavy moustache,
iron-grey mutton-chop whiskers, and a woolly voice.

"I never see a chap wi' whiskers like that wot wasn't as 'oly as oil,"
was Bindle's opinion.

Mr. Hearty was negative in everything save piety.  His ideal in life
was to temporise and placate, and thus avoid anything in the nature of
a dispute or altercation.

"If 'Earty's goin' to be a favourite in 'eaven," Bindle had once said
to Mrs. Bindle, "I don't think much of 'eaven's taste in men.  'E can't
'it nothink, either with 'is fist or 'is tongue."

"If you was more like him," Mrs. Bindle had retorted, "you might wear a
top hat on Sundays, same as he does."

"Me in a top 'at!" Bindle had cried.  "'Oly Moses!  I can see it!  Why,
my ears ain't big enough to 'old it up.  Wot 'ud I do if there was an
'igh wind blowin'?  I'd spend all Sunday a-chasin' it up and down the
street, like an ole woman after a black 'en."

Bindle himself was far from being pugnacious; but his conception of
manhood was that it should be ready to hit any head that wanted
hitting.  He had been known to fight men much bigger than himself, not
because he personally had any dispute to settle with them, but rather
from an abstract sense of the fitness of things.  Once when a man was
mercilessly beating a horse Bindle intervened, and a fight had ensued,
which had ended only when both parties were too exhausted to continue.

"Blimey, but you ain't 'arf a fool, Joe," remarked Ginger, to whom a
fight was the one joy in life, regarding with interest Bindle's bruised
and bleeding face as he stood sobbing for breath.  "Wot jer do it for?
'E wasn't 'urtin' you; it was the 'orse."

"Somebody 'ad to 'ammer 'im, Ginger," gasped Bindle with a wry smile,
"an' the 'orse couldn't."  Then after a pause he added, "It ain't good
for a cove to be let 'it things wot can't 'it back."

Meals at the Heartys' table were solemn affairs in which conversation
had little or no part, save when Bindle was present.

Mr. Hearty ate his food with noisy enjoyment.  His moustache, which
seemed bent on peeping into his mouth and, coupled with his lugubrious
appearance, gave him the appearance of a tired walrus, required
constant attention, particularly as he was extremely fond of soups and
stewed foods.  This rendered conversation extremely difficult.  During
the greater part of a meal he would be engaged in taking first one end
and then the other of his moustache into his mouth for the purpose of
cleansing it.  This he did to the accompaniment of a prolonged sucking
sound, suggestive of great enjoyment.

"I likes to watch 'Earty cleanin' 'is whiskers," Bindle had once
remarked, after gazing at his brother-in-law for some minutes with
great intentness.  "'E never misses an 'air."

Mr. Hearty had got very red, and for the rest of the meal refused all
but solid foods.

Bindle was a perpetual source of anxiety to Mr. Hearty, who, although
always prepared for the worst, yet invariably found that the worst
transcended his expectations.  Had he not been a Christian he might
have suggested cutting himself and family adrift from all association
with his brother-in-law.  Even had he been able to overcome his
scruples, there was the very obvious bond of affection between Mrs.
Hearty, Millie, and "Uncle Joe": but, what was more alarming, there was
the question of how Bindle himself might view the severance.

Mrs. Hearty was a woman on whom fat had descended like a plague.  It
rendered her helpless of anything in the nature of exertion.  In her
Bindle found a kindred spirit.  Her silent laugh, which rippled down
her chins until lost to sight in her ample bust, never failed to
inspire him to his best efforts.  He would tell her of his "little
jokes" until Millie would have to intervene with a timid:

"Oh, uncle, don't!  You're hurting mother!"

Great amusement rendered Mrs. Hearty entirely helpless, both of action
and of speech, and to her laughter was something between an anguish and
an ecstasy.

She was quite conscious of the stimulating effect upon Bindle of her
"Oh, Joe, don't!" yet never hesitated to utter what she knew would
eventually reduce her to a rippling and heaving mass of mirth.

She was Bindle's confidante, and seemed to find in the accounts of his
adventures compensation for the atmosphere of repression in which she
lived.  In her heart she regretted that her husband had not been a
furniture-remover instead of a greengrocer; for it seemed to produce
endless diversions.

Little Millie would sit on a stool at her mother's feet drinking in
Uncle Joe's stories, uttering an occasional half-laughing,
half-reproachful, "Oh, Uncle Joe!"

If Mrs. Hearty had a weakness for Bindle's stories, Mrs. Bindle found
in Alfred Hearty her ideal of what a man should be.  When a girl she
had been called upon to choose between Alfred Hearty, then a
greengrocer's assistant, and Joseph Bindle, and she never quite forgave
herself for having taken the wrong man.

In those days Bindle's winning tongue had left Alfred Hearty without
even a sporting chance.  To Mrs. Bindle her mistaken choice was the
canker-worm in her heart, and it was not a little responsible for her
uncompromising attitude towards Bindle.

In a moment of pride at his conquest Bindle had said to Hearty:

"It's no good goin' after a woman wi' one eye on the golden gates of
'eaven, 'Earty, and that's why I won."

Since then Bindle had resented Hearty's apathetic courtship, which had
brought about his own victory.  Many times Bindle had thought over the
folly of his wooing, and he always came to the same conclusion, a
muttered:

"If 'e 'ad 'ad a little more ginger 'e might 'ave won.  They'd 'ave
made a tasty pair."

The result had been that Mrs. Bindle's sister, Martha, had caught Mr.
Hearty at the rebound, and had since regretted it as much as she ever
regretted anything.

"When you're my size," she would say, "you don' trouble much about
anything.  It's the lean ones as worries.  Look at Lizzie."  Lizzie was
Mrs. Bindle.

Mrs. Bindle herself had been very different as a girl.  Theatres and
music-halls were not then "places of sin"; and she was not altogether
above suspicion of being a flirt.  When it dawned upon her that she had
made a mistake in marrying Bindle and letting her sister Martha secure
the matrimonial prize, a great bitterness had taken possession of her.

As Mr. Hearty slowly climbed the ladder towards success, Mrs. Bindle's
thoughts went with him.  He became her great interest in life.  No wife
or mother ever watched the progress of husband or son with keener
interest or greater admiration than Mrs. Bindle watched that of her
brother-in-law.

Gradually she began to make him her "pattern to live and to die."  She
joined the Alton Road Chapel, gave up all "carnal" amusements, and
began a careful and elaborate preparation for the next world.

Bindle, as the unconscious cause of her humiliation--the supreme
humiliation of a woman's life, marrying the wrong man--became also the
victim of her dissatisfaction.  He watched the change, marvelling at
its cause, and with philosophic acceptance explaining it by telling
himself that "women were funny things."

As a girl Mrs. Bindle had been pleasure-loving, some regarded her as
somewhat flighty; and the course of gradual starvation of pleasure to
which she subjected herself had embittered her whole nature.  There
was, however, no suggestion of sentiment in her attitude towards her
brother-in-law.  He was her standard by which she measured the failure
of other men, Bindle in particular.

Like all women, she bowed the knee to success, and Alfred Hearty was
the most successful man she had ever encountered.  He had begun life on
the tail-board of a parcels delivery van, he was now the owner of two
flourishing greengrocer's shops, to say nothing of being regarded as
one of Fulham's most worthy citizens.

From van-boy to a small greengrocer, he had risen to the important
position of calling on customers to solicit orders, and here he had
shown his first flash of genius.  He had cultivated every housewife and
maid-servant assiduously, never allowing them to buy anything he could
not recommend.  When eventually he started in business on his own
account, he had carefully canvassed his late employer's customers, who,
to a woman, went over to him.

"It was that 'oly smile of 'is wot done it," was Bindle's opinion.

When in the natural course of events his previous employer retired a
bankrupt, it was taken as evidence of the supreme ability of the man
who had taken from him his livelihood.

In the administration of his own business Alfred Hearty had shown his
second flash of genius--he never allowed his own employés an
opportunity of doing as he had done, but, by occasional personal calls
upon his customers, managed to convey the idea that it was he who was
entirely responsible for the proper execution of their orders.  As a
further precaution he constantly changed the rounds of his men, and
thus safeguarded himself from any employé playing Wellington to his
Napoleon.

Occasionally on Sunday evenings Bindle and Mrs. Bindle would be invited
to supper at the Heartys' in Fulham High Street, where they lived over
their principal shop.  Mr. Hearty and Mrs. Bindle would return after
chapel with Millie; Bindle invariably arranged to arrive early in order
to have a talk with Mrs. Hearty, who did not go to chapel because her
"breath was that bad."

"Funny thing, you and Lizzie bein' sisters; you seem to have got all
the meat an' left 'er only the bones!" Bindle would say.

Bindle hated anything that was even remotely connected with lemons, a
fruit that to him symbolised aggressive temperance.  Mr. Hearty was
very partial to lemon flavouring, and in consequence lemon puddings,
lemon cakes, and lemon tarts were invariably served as sweets at his
table.

"Lemonade, lemon cakes, and lemon faces, all as sour as an unkissed
gal, that's wot a Sunday night at Hearty's place is," Bindle had
confided to a mate.

Once the chapel party returned, the evening became monotonous.

After supper Millie was sent to the harmonium and hymns were sung.
Mrs. Bindle had a thin, piercing voice, Millie a small tremulous
soprano, and Mr. Hearty was what Bindle called "all wool and wind."
Mrs. Hearty appeared to have no voice at all, although her lips moved
in sympathy with the singers.

At first Bindle had been a silent and agonised spectator, refusing all
invitations to join in the singing.  He would sit, his attention
divided between Mr. Hearty's curious vocal contortions, suggestive of a
hen drinking water, and the rippling motion of Mrs. Hearty's chins.
When singing Mr. Hearty elevated his head, screwed up his eyes and
raised his eyebrows; the higher the note the higher went his eyebrows,
and the more closely he screwed up his eyes.

"'E makes faces enough for a 'ole band," Bindle had once whispered to
Mrs. Hearty, who had brought the evening to a dramatic termination by
incontinently collapsing.

"A laugh and an 'ymn got mixed," was Bindle's diagnosis.

It was soon after this episode that Bindle hit upon a happy idea for
bringing to a conclusion these, to him, tedious evenings.  Mrs.
Bindle's favourite hymn was "Gospel Bells," whereas Mr. Hearty seemed
to cherish an equally strong love for "Pull for the Shore, Sailors."
Never were these hymns sung less than three times each during the
course of the evening.

Bindle had thought of many ways of trying to end the performance.  Once
he had dexterously inserted his penknife in the bellows of the
harmonium whilst looking for a pencil he was supposed to have dropped.
This, however, merely added to the horror of the situation.

"The bloomin' thing blew worse than 'Earty," he said.

One evening he determined to put his new idea into practice.  The gross
volume of sound produced by the quartette with the harmonium was
extremely small, and Bindle conceived the idea of drowning it.

"I'll stew 'em in their own juice," he muttered.

He had no voice, and very little idea either of tune or of time.  What
he did possess he was careful to forget.  The first hymn in which he
joined was "Pull for the Shore, Sailors."

From the first Bindle's voice proved absolutely uncontrollable.  It
wavered and darted all over the gamut, and as it was much louder than
the combined efforts of the other three, plus the harmonium, Bindle
appeared to be soloist, the others supplying a subdued accompaniment.
Unity of effort seemed impossible.  Whilst they were in the process of
"pulling," he was invariably on "the shore"; and when they had arrived
at "the shore," he had just started "pulling."  Time after time they
stopped to make a fresh start, but without improving the general effect.

Bindle showed great concern at his curious inability to keep with the
others, and suggested retiring from the contest; but this Mr. Hearty
would not hear of.  To help matters he beat time with his hand, but as
his vocal attitude was one of contemplation of the ceiling, generally
with closed eyes, he very frequently hit Millie on the head, causing
her to lose her place and forget the pedals, with the result that the
harmonium died away in a moan of despair.  Bindle, however, always went
on.  All he required was the words, to which he did full justice.

The evening was terminated by the collapse of Mrs. Hearty.

On the following day Bindle could not talk above a whisper.

One result of Bindle's vocal efforts had been that invitations to spend
Sunday evenings with the Heartys had become less frequent, a
circumstance on which Mrs. Bindle did not fail to comment.

"You're always spoilin' things for me.  I enjoyed those evenin's," she
complained.

"Shouldn't have arst me to sing," Bindle retorted.  "Yer know I ain't a
bloomin' canary, like you and 'Earty."

To Mr. Hearty the visits of the Bindles took on a new and more alarming
aspect.  Sunday was no day for secular things, and he dreaded his
brother-in-law's reminiscences and comments on "parsons," and his views
regarding religion.  Sooner or later Bindle always managed to gather
the desultory threads into his own hands.

"Y' oughter been a parson, 'Earty," Bindle remarked pleasantly one
Sunday evening àpropos nothing.  "So ought Ginger, if 'is language
wasn't so 'ighly spiced.  It's no good lookin' 'appy if you're a
parson.  Looks as if yer makin' a meal o' the soup in case the fish
ain't fresh.

"I remember movin' a parson once," remarked Bindle, puffing away
contentedly at a cigar he had brought with him (Mr. Hearty did not
smoke), now thoroughly well-launched upon a conversational monologue.
"Leastways 'e was a missionary.  'E was due somewhere in Africa to
teach niggers 'ow uncomfortable it is to 'ave a soul.

"'E 'ad to go miles into the jungle, and all 'is stuff 'ad to be
carried on the 'eads of niggers.  Forty pounds a man, and the nigger
a-standin' by to see it weighed, an' refusin' to budge if it was a
ounce overweight.  I never knew niggers was so cute.  This missionary
was allowed about ten bundles o' forty pounds each.  Lord! yer should
'ave seen the collection of stuff 'e'd got.  About four ton.  The
manager worked it out that about two 'undred niggers 'ud be wanted.

"'E 'ad 'is double-bed; the top itself weighed seventy pounds.  Wot a
missionary wants with a double-bed in the jungle does me.  'E gave up
the bedstead idea, an' 'e give it to me instead o' beer money.  That's
'ow Mrs. B. comes to sleep in a missionary's bed.  'E stuck to a
grandfather clock, though.  Nothink could persuade 'im to leave it
be'ind.  The clock and weights was too much for one nigger, so I put
the weights in wi' the tea-things."

"Oh, Uncle Joe!" from Millie.

"Yes, 'e's got the time in the jungle, but if 'e wants 'is tea 'e'll
'ave to drink it out of 'is boot.  Them weights must 'ave made an 'oly
mess of the crockery!"

At this juncture Mr. Hearty made a valiant effort to divert the
conversation to the forthcoming missionary tea; but Bindle was too
strong for him.

"There was one parson," he continued, "'oo was different from the
others.  'E was a big gun.  I moved 'im when 'e was made a dean.  'E'd
come an' sit an' talk while we 'ad our dinner, which 'e used to give
us.  Beer too, 'Earty.  No lemon flavourin' about 'im.

"One day I sez to 'im, 'Funny thing you bein' a parson, sir, if you'll
forgive me sayin' so.'

"'Why?' he arst.

"'Well, you seem so 'appy, just like me and 'Uggles.'  'Uggles is
always grinnin' when 'e ain't drunk.

"'E laughed as if it was the best joke 'e'd ever 'eard.

"'If religion don't make yer 'appy, it's the wrong religion,' 'e says.

"Now look at 'Earty and Lizzie; do they look 'appy?"

Mrs. Hearty and Millie looked instinctively at the two joyless faces.

"They got the wrong religion, sure as eggs," pronounced Bindle, well
pleased at the embarrassment on the faces of Mrs. Bindle and Mr.
Hearty.  "I went to 'ear that cove preach.  I liked 'is Gawd better'n
yours, 'Earty.  'E didn't want to turn the next world into a sort of
mixed grill.  He was all for 'appiness and pleasure.  I could be
religious with a man like that parson.  He was too good for 'is job.

"There's some people wot seem to spend their time a-inventin' 'orrible
punishments in the next world for the people they don't like in this."

"I wish you'd learn 'ow to be'ave before your betters," remarked Mrs.
Bindle, in the subdued voice she always adopted in the presence of Mr.
Hearty.  "I'm ashamed of you, Bindle, that I am."

"Don't you worry, Mrs. B.  'Earty knows me bark's worse'n me bite,
don't yer, ole sport?"

Mr. Hearty shivered, but bared his teeth in token of Christian
forbearance.

"An' now, Mrs. Bindle, it's 'ome and 'appiness and the missionary's
bed."

As Bindle was in the hall, putting on his coat, Millie slipped out.

"Uncle," she whispered, "will you take me to the pictures one night?"

"O' course I will, little Millikins.  Name the 'appy day."

"Friday," she whispered; "but ask before father; and uncle, will you
put on your hard hat and best overcoat?"

Bindle eyed his niece curiously.

"Wot's up, Millikins?" he enquired; whereat Millie hid her face against
his sleeve.

"I'll tell 'you Friday.  You will come, won't you?"  There was a tremor
in her voice, and a sudden fear in her eyes.

"At seven-thirty J.B.'ll be 'ere at yer ladyship's service, 'at an'
all.  'E'd put on 'is best face only 'e ain't got one.

"That pretty face of 'ers 'll cause 'Earty a nasty jar one of these
days," muttered Bindle, as he and Mrs. Bindle walked home in silence.




CHAPTER V

BINDLE TRIES A CHANGE OF WORK

"Paintin' 'as its points," Bindle would remark, "that is, providin' it
ain't outdoor paintin', when you're either on top of a ladder, which
may be swep' from under yer and bang yer goes to Kingdom Come, or else
you're 'angin' like a bally worm on an 'ook."

In the spring when moving was slack, Bindle invariably found a job as a
painter.  It was shortly after his encounter with Professor Conti that
he heard hands were wanted at the Splendid Hotel, where a permanent
staff of painters and decorators was kept.  It was the pride of the
management to keep the hotel spotless, and as it was always full, to
give a wing bodily over to the painters and decorators would mean a
considerable loss of revenue.  Consequently all the work of renovation
was done during the night.

The insides of the bedrooms were completely redecorated within the
space of twenty-four hours.  All corridors and common-rooms were done
between midnight and the hot-water hour, special quick-drying materials
being used; but most important of all was the silence of the workers.

"The bloomin' miracles," Bindle called the little army that transformed
the place in the course of a few hours.

When first told of the system he had been incredulous, and on applying
for a job to the foreman in charge he remarked:

"I've 'eard tell of dumb dawgs, mebbe it's true, and dumb waiters; but
dumb painters--I won't believe it--it ain't natural."

The foreman had eyed him deliberately; then in a contemptuous tone,
remarked:

"If you get this job you've got to go without winkin' or breathin' in
case you make a noise.  If you want to cough you've got to choke; if
you want to sneeze you've got to bust instead.  You'll get to like it
in time."

"Sounds pleasant," remarked Bindle drily; "still, I'll join," he added
with decision, "though it's like bein' a night-watchman in a museum."

The hours were awkward and the restrictions severe, but the pay was
good, and Bindle had in his mind's eye the irate form of Mrs. Bindle
with her inevitable interrogation, "Got a job?"

"You starts at eleven p.m.," proceeded the foreman, "and you leaves off
at eight next mornin'--if you're lucky.  If y'ain't you gets the sack,
and leaves all the same."

At first Bindle found the work inexpressibly dreary.  To be within a
few yards of a fellow-creature and debarred from speaking to him was an
entirely new experience.  Time after time he was on the point of
venturing some comment, checking himself only with obvious effort.  He
soon discovered, however, that if he were to make no noise he must
devote his entire attention to his work.

"Mustn't drop a bloomin' brush, or fall over a bloomin' paint-pot," he
grumbled, "but wot yer gets the sack.  Rummy 'ole, this."

Once his brush slipped from his hand, but by a masterly contortion he
recovered it before it reached the ground.  The foreman, who happened
to be passing at the time, eyed him steadily for several seconds, then
with withering scorn remarked in a hoarse whisper as he turned on his
heel:

"Paintin's your job, slippery, not jugglin'."

Not to be able to retort and wither an opponent was to Bindle a new
experience; but to remain silent in the face of an insult from a
foreman was an intolerable humiliation.  To Bindle foremen were the
epitome of evil.  He had once in a moment of supreme contempt remarked
to his brother-in-law:

"Call yerself a man, 'Oly Moses!  I've seen better things than you in
bloomin' foremen's jobs!"

Mr. Hearty had not appreciated the withering contempt that underlay
this remark, being too much aghast at its profanity.  Bindle had said
to his wife:

"You and 'Earty is always so busy lookin' for sin that you ain't time
to see a joke."

Bindle quickly tired of the work, and after a few days allowed it to
transpire, as if quite casually, that he was a man of many crafts.  He
gave his mates to understand, for instance, that he was a carpenter of
such transcendental ability as to be entirely wasted as a painter.  He
threw out the hint in the hope that it might reach the ears of the
foreman and result in an occasional change of work.

He was inexpressibly weary of this silent painting.  The world had
changed for him.

"Sleepin' all the sunny day," he grumbled, "and dabbin' on paint all
the bloomin' night; not allowed to blow yer nose, an' me not knowin'
the deaf-and-dumb alphabet."

He would probably have been more content had it not been for the
foreman.  He had known many foremen in his time, but this man carried
offensiveness to the point of inspiration.  He had been at his present
work for many years, and was consequently well versed in the arts of
conveying insult other than by word of mouth.

He was possessed of many gestures so expressive in their power of
humiliating contempt, that upon Bindle their effect was the same as if
he had been struck in the face.  One of these Bindle gathered he had
learned from a sailor, who had assured him that in Brazil the
inevitable response was the knife.  Ever after, Bindle had a great
respect for the Brazilian, and the laws of a country that permitted the
arbitrary punishment of silent insult.

Henceforward the foreman became the centre of Bindle's thoughts.  Too
genial and happy-go-lucky by nature himself to nourish any enmity
against his superior, Bindle was determined to teach him a lesson,
should the chance occur.  The man was a bully, and Bindle disliked
bullies.  At last his chance came, much to Bindle's satisfaction, as a
result of his own foresight in allowing it to become known that he
possessed some ability as a carpenter.

The third floor corridor, known as No. 1 East, was to be redecorated.
In painting the doors all the numbers, which were separate figures of
gun-metal, had to be removed before the painting was commenced and
replaced after it was completed.  This required great care, not only
that the guests might not be awakened, but that the partially dried
paint might not be smeared.  The foreman always performed this delicate
operation himself, regarding it as of too great importance to entrust
to a subordinate.

On this particular occasion, however, the foreman had received an
invitation to a beanfeast at Epping.  This was for the Saturday, and
the corridor was to be redecorated on the Friday night.  As an early
start was to be made, the foreman was anxious to get away and obtain
some sleep that he might enjoy the day to its full extent.

He had done all he could to postpone the work until the next week, but
without success, so it became necessary for him either to find a
substitute, or go weary-eyed and sleepless to his pleasure.

For a man of the social temperament of the foreman to decline such an
invitation was unthinkable.

Just as he had arrived at the conclusion that he would have to go
straight from work, his eye lighted on Bindle, and remembering what he
had heard about his varied abilities, he beckoned him to follow to a
room that temporarily served as an Office of Works.  Inside the room
Bindle gazed expectantly at his superior.

"I 'ear you've been a carpenter," the foreman began.

"Funny 'ow rumours do get about," remarked Bindle pleasantly.  "I
remember when my brother-in-law, 'Earty's 'is name--ever met him?
Quaint ole bird, 'Earty.--Well, when 'e----"

"Never mind 'im," returned the foreman, "can you 'andle a screw-driver?"

"'Andle any think except a woman.  Married yerself?" Bindle
interrogated with significance.

Ignoring the question the foreman continued: "Can you take the numbers
off them rosy doors in the east corridor, and put 'em back again
to-night without makin' a stutterin' row?"

"Me?" queried Bindle in surprise.

"I got to go to a funeral," continued the foreman, avoiding Bindle's
eye, "an' I want to get a bit o' sleep first."

Bindle eyed his superior curiously.

"Funny things, funerals," he remarked casually.  "Goin' to 'ave a
cornet on the 'earse?"

"A what?"

"The last time I went to a funeral the guv'nor saw me on the box, next
to Ole 'Arper, and all the boys a-shoutin' somethink about 'Ope and
Glory.  The ole guv'nor didn't ought to 'ave been out so early.  Ole
'Arper could play; 'e'd wake a 'ole village while another man was
thinkin' about it," he added reminiscently.

"It's my mother wot's dead," said the foreman dully, unequal to the
task of stemming the tide of Bindle's loquacity and at the same time
keeping on good terms with him.

"Yer mother?  I'm sorry.  Buryin' 'is mother twice got 'Oly Jim into an
'orrible mess.  He fixed 'er funeral for February--all serene; but wot
must he go an' do, the silly 'Uggins, but forget all about it and start
a-buryin' of 'er again in June.  'Is guv'nor used to keep a book o'
buryin's, and it took Jim quite a long time to explain that 'is buryin'
of 'er twice all come about through 'im bein' a twin."

The foreman's impatience was visibly growing.  "Never you mind about
Jim, 'oly or otherwise.  Can yer take off and put on again them
numbers?"

Then after a pause he added casually, nodding in the direction of a
cupboard in the corner:

"There's a couple of bottles o' beer and some bread an' cheese an'
pickles in that cupboard."

Bindle's face brightened, and thus it was that the bargain was struck.

When Bindle left the room it was with the knowledge that his superior
had been delivered into his hands.  He did not then know exactly how he
intended to compass the foreman's downfall.  Inspiration would come
later.  It was sufficient for him to know that correction was to be
administered where correction was due.

In Bindle there was a strong sense of justice, and his sympathies were
all with his mates, who suffered the foreman's insults rather than lose
good jobs.  Bindle was always popular with his fellow-workers.  They
liked and respected him.  He was free with his money, always ready with
a joke or a helping hand, was sober and clean of speech without
appearing to notice any defect in others save on very rare occasions.
He had been known to fight and beat a bigger man than himself to save a
woman from a thrashing, and when Mrs. Bindle had poured down reproaches
upon his head on account of his battered appearance, he had silently
gone to bed and simulated sleep, although every inch of his body ached.

It was about nine o'clock in the evening that the foreman had seen in
Bindle the means of his obtaining some sleep and arriving at his
bean-feast refreshed.  At eleven o'clock he left the hotel, after
having given to his deputy the most elaborate instructions.  His
parting words filled Bindle with unholy joy.

"If anythin' goes wrong I'll lose my job, and don't you forget it."
Bindle promised himself that he would not.

"I'll not forget it, ole son," he murmured, with the light of joy in
his eyes.  "I'll not forget it.  It's your beano to-morrow, but it's
goin' to be mine to-night.  Last week yer sacked poor ole Teddy Snell,
an' 'im wi' seven kids," and Bindle smiled as St. George might have
smiled on seeing the dragon.

For some time after the foreman's departure, Bindle cogitated as to how
to take full advantage of the situation which had thus providentially
presented itself.  Plan after plan was put aside as unworthy of the
occasion.

There are great possibilities for "little jokes" in hotels.  Bindle
remembered an early effort of his when a page-boy.  The employment had
been short-lived, for on his first day the corridors were being
recarpeted.  The sight of a large box of exceedingly long carpet nails
left by the workmen at night had given him an idea.  He had crept from
his room and carefully lifted the carpet for the whole length of the
corridor, inserting beneath it scores of carpet nails points upwards;
later he had sounded the fire alarm and watched with glee the visitors
rush from their rooms only to dance about in anguish on the points of
the nails, uttering imprecations and blasphemies.

This effort had cost him his job and a thrashing from his father, but
it had been worth it.

It was, however, merely the crude attempt of a child.

It was one of the chambermaids, a rosy-cheeked girl recently up from
the country, who gave Bindle the idea he had been seeking.  As he was
unscrewing the numbers with all the elaborate caution of a burglar, he
felt a hand upon his shoulder, and found the chambermaid beside him.

"Mind you put them numbers back right," she whispered, "or I shan't
know t'other from which."

Bindle turned and eyed her gravely.

"My dear," he remonstrated, "I'm a married man, and if Mrs. Bindle was
to see you wi' yer arm round me neck--wot!"

The pretty chambermaid had soundly boxed his ears.

"A girl would have to have tired arms to rest them round _your_ neck,"
she whispered, and tripped off down the corridor.

For some minutes Bindle worked mechanically.  His mind was busy with
the chambermaid's remark.  At the end of half an hour all the numbers
were removed and the painters busy on the doors.  Bindle returned to
the Office of Works.

"'Oly angels," he muttered joyously, as he attacked the bread and
cheese and pickles, and poured out a glass of beer.  "'Oly angels, if I
was to forget, and get them numbers mixed, an' them bunnies wasn't able
to get back to their 'utches!"

He put down his glass, choking.  When he had recovered his breath, he
wiped his eyes with the back of his hand, finished his meal, and
returned to the corridor.

It was the rule of the hotel that no workmen should be seen about after
seven-thirty.  Just before that hour Bindle had completed his work of
replacing the numbers on the doors, and had removed from the corridor
the last traces of the work that had been in progress.  He returned to
the Office of Works which commanded a view of the whole length of the
East Corridor.  He was careful to leave the door ajar so that he had an
uninterrupted view.  He sat down and proceeded to enjoy the morning
paper which the "Boots" had brought him, the second bottle of the
foreman's beer, and the remains of the bread and cheese.

"Shouldn't be surprised if things was to 'appen soon," he murmured, as
he rose and carefully folded the newspaper.




CHAPTER VI

THE HOTEL CORRIDOR


I

As Bindle watched, a face peeped cautiously round the door of one of
the bedrooms.  It was a nervous, ascetic face, crowned by a mass of
iron-grey hair that swept from left to right, and seemed to be held
back from obliterating the weak but kindly blue eyes only by the
determination of the right eyebrow.

The face looked nervously to the right and to the left, and then, as if
assured that no one was about, it was followed by a body clothed in
carpet slippers, clerical trousers and coat, with a towel hanging over
its shoulders.

"Parson," muttered Bindle, as the figure slid cautiously along the
corridor towards him.

At the sight of Bindle emerging from the Office of Works the clergyman
started violently.

"C-c-can you direct me to the bath-room, please?" he enquired nervously.

"Ladies' or gents', sir?" demanded Bindle.

"Ladies', of--I mean gentlemen's."  The pale face flushed painfully,
and the tide of hair refused to be held back longer and swept down,
entirely obliterating the right eye.

"Must 'ave forgot 'is dressin'-gown," remarked Bindle, as the cleric
disappeared round a corner in the direction of the bath-room furthest
from his own room, to which he had been directed.

"'E must get over that nervousness of 'is," was Bindle's excuse to
himself, as he returned to his room.

He was just wiping his mouth on his coat sleeve after draining the last
drop of beer, when he heard a suppressed scream from the corridor.  He
opened the door suddenly, and was startled to find himself confronted
by a woman of uncertain age in an elaborate rose-pink négligé and mob
cap--beneath which was to be seen a head suspiciously well-coiffed for
that hour of the morning.

"Oh!  Oh!!  Oh!!!" she gasped, as she entered the room, obviously
labouring under some great emotion.

"Anythink I can do, miss?" enquired Bindle respectfully, marvelling at
the make-up that lay thick upon her withered cheeks.

"Looks like an apple wot they've forgot to pluck," he commented
inwardly.  "Anythink I can do, miss?"

"There's--there's a--a m-m-man in my room," she gasped.

"A wot, miss?" enquired Bindle in shocked surprise.

"A m-m-man."

"Yer 'usband, mum," Bindle suggested diplomatically.

"I haven't got one," she stuttered.  "Oh! it's dreadful.  He--he's in
my bed, and he's bald, and he's got black whiskers."

Bindle whistled.  "'Ow long's 'e been there, miss?" he enquired.

"I went to the bath-room and--and he was there when I got back.  It's
horrible, dreadful," and two tears that had hung pendulously in the
corner of her eyes decided to made the plunge, and ploughed their way
through the make-up, leaving brown trails like devastating armies.

"Oh, what shall I do?"

"Well, since you arst me, miss, I shouldn't say any think about it,"
replied Bindle.

"Nothing about it, nothing about a man being in my bed?"  She was on
the verge of hysterics.  "What do you mean?"

"Well, miss, 'otels is funny places.  They might put 'im on the bill as
a extra."

"You--you----"

What it was that Bindle most resembled he did not wait to hear, but
with great tact stepped out into the corridor, closing the door behind
him.

"Some'ow I thought things would 'appen," he murmured joyously.

A few yards from him he saw the form of a fair-haired youth,
immaculately garbed in a brilliantly hued silk kimono, with red Turkish
slippers and an eye-glass.  He was gazing about him with an air of
extreme embarrassment.

"Hi!  You!" he called out.

Bindle approached the young exquisite.

"There's--er--someone got into my room by mistake.  She's in my bed,
too.  What the devil am I to do?  Awfully awkward, what!"

Bindle grinned, the young man laughed nervously.  He was feeling "a
most awful rip, you know."

"Some people gets all the luck," remarked Bindle with a happy grin.  "A
lady 'as just complained that she's found a man in 'er bed, bald 'ead
and black whiskers an' all, an' now 'ere are you a-sayin' as there's a
girl in yours.  'As she a bald 'ead and black whiskers, sir?"

"She's got fair hair and is rather pretty, and she's asleep.  I stole
out without waking her.  Now, I can't walk about in this kit all day."
He looked down at his elaborate deshabille.  "I must get my clothes,
you know.  How the deuce did she get there?  I was only away twenty
minutes."

Bindle scratched his head.

"You're in a difficult sort of 'ole, sir.  I'm afraid it's like once
when I went a-bathin', and a dog went to sleep on me trousers and
growled and snapped when I tried to get 'em away.  I 'ad to go 'ome
lookin' like an 'Ighlander."

"Look here," remarked the young man.  "I'll give you a sovereign to go
and fetch my things.  I'll dress in a bath-room."

He was a really nice young man, one who has a mother and sisters and
remembers the circumstance.

"I'm afraid Mrs. Bindle--my wife, sir, my name's Bindle, Joseph
Bindle--wouldn't like it, sir.  She's very particular, is Mrs. B.  I
think yer'd better go in there," indicating the Office of Works, "an'
I'll call the chambermaid."

"Ah, that's a brainy idea," remarked the youth, brightening.  "I never
thought of that."

Bindle opened the door and the youth entered.

There was a shrill scream from the pink négligé.

"It's all right, miss.  This gentleman's like yerself, sort o' got
hisself mixed up.  There's a lady in 'is room--ahem! in 'is bed too.
Kind o' family coach goin' on this mornin', seems to me."

The youth blushed rosily, and was just on the point of stammering
apologies for his garb, when a tremendous uproar from the corridor
interrupted him.

Bindle had purposely left the door ajar and through the slit he had, a
moment previously, seen the clergyman disappear precipitately through
one of the bedroom doors.  It was from this room that the noise came.

"Mon Dieu!" shrieked a female voice.  "Il se battent.  À moi! à moi!"
There were hoarse mutterings and the sound of blows.

"'Ere, you look arter each other," Bindle cried, "it's murder this
time."  And he sped down the corridor.

He entered No. 21 to find locked together in a deadly embrace the
clergyman and a little bald-headed man in pyjamas.  In the bed was a
figure, Bindle mentally commended its daintiness, rising up from a foam
of frillies and shrieking at the top of her voice "silly things wot
wasn't even words," as Bindle afterwards told Mrs. Hearty.

"Mon Dieu!  Mon Dieu!  Il sera tué!"

"Regular fightin' parson," muttered Bindle, as he strove to part the
men.  "If 'e don't stop a-bumpin' 'is 'ead on the floor 'e'll break it.
'Ere, stop it, sir.  Yer mustn't use 'is 'ead as if it was a cokernut
and yer wanted the milk.  Come orf!"

Bindle had seized the clergyman from behind, and was pulling with all
his strength as he might at the collar of a bellicose bull-terrier.

"Come orf, yer mustn't do this sort o' thing in an 'otel.  I'm
surprised at you, sir, a clergyman too."

Half choking, the clergyman rose to his feet, and strove to brush the
flood of hair from his eyes.  His opponent seized the opportunity and
flew back to bed, where he sat trying to staunch the blood that flowed
from his nose and hurling defiance at his enemy.

"Wot's it all about?" enquired Bindle.

"I--I came back from my bath and found this man in my bed with a--a----"

"Ma femme," shrieked the little Frenchman.  "Is it not that we have
slept here every night for----"

"'Ush, sir, 'ush!" rebuked Bindle over his shoulder with a grin.  "We
don't talk like that in England."

"Sort of lost yer way, sir, and got in the wrong room," Bindle
suggested to the clergyman.

"He rushed at me and kicked me in the--er--stom--er--well, he kicked
me, and I--I forget, and I--I----"

"Of course yer did, sir; anyone 'ud 'a done the same."

Then to the Frenchman Bindle remarked severely:

"Yer didn't ought to 'ave kicked 'im, 'im a clergyman too.  Fancy
kicking a clergyman in the--well, where you kicked 'im.  Wot's the
number of yer room, sir?" he enquired, turning to the clergyman.

"Twenty-one; see, it's on the door."

Bindle looked; there was "21" clear enough.

"Wot's yer number, sir?" he asked the Frenchman.

"Vingt-quatre."

"Now don't you go a-using none of them words 'fore a clergyman.  Wot's
yer number? that's wot I'm arstin'."

"Twenty-four--vingt-quatre."

"Well," said Bindle with decision, "you're in the wrong room."

"Mais c'est impossible," cried the Frenchman.  "We have been here all
night.  Is it not so, cherie?"  He turned to his wife for corroboration.

Bindle had no time to enter further into the dispute.  Suddenly a fresh
disturbance broke out further along the corridor.

"What the devil do you mean by this outrage, sir?" an angry and
imperious voice was demanding.  "What the devil do you----"

With a hasty word to the clergyman, who now looked thoroughly ashamed
of himself, and a gentle push in the direction of the Office of Works,
Bindle trotted off to the scene of the new disturbance.  He heard
another suppressed scream from the pink négligé betokening the entry of
the clergyman.

"What the devil do you mean by entering my room?"

A tall, irate man, with the Army stamped all over him, dressed in
pyjamas, with a monocle firmly wedged in his left eye, was fiercely
eyeing a smaller man in a bath-robe.

"Not content with having got into my room, but damme, sir, you must
needs try and get into my trousers.  What the devil do you mean by it?"

Bindle looked along the corridor appreciatively.  "Looks like a
shipwreck at night, it do," he remarked to the chambermaid.

"It's my room," said the man in the bathrobe.

"Confound you," was the reply, "this is my room, and I'll prosecute you
for libel."

"My room is No. 18," responded the other, "and I left my wife there
half an hour ago."

He pointed to the figures on the door in proof of his contention.  The
man in the monocle looked at the door, and a puzzled expression passed
over his face.

"Damme," he exploded, "my room is No. 15, but I certainly slept in that
room all night."  He darted inside and reappeared a moment after with
his trousers in his hand.

"Here are my trousers to prove it.  Are these your trousers?"  The man
in the bath-robe confessed that they were not.

"That seems to prove it all right, sir," remarked Bindle, who had come
up.  "A man don't sleep in a different room from his trousers,
leastways, unless 'e's a 'Ighlander."

Similar disturbances were taking place along the corridor.  The uproar
began to attract visitors from other corridors, and soon the whole
place was jammed with excited guests, in attire so varied and
insufficient that one lady, who had insisted on her husband
accompanying her to see what had happened, immediately sent him back to
his room that his eyes might not be outraged by the lavish display of
ankles and bare arms.

The more nervous among the women guests had immediately assumed fire to
be the cause of the disturbance, and thinking of their lives rather
than of modesty and decorum, had rushed precipitately from their rooms.

"It might be a Turkish bath for all the clothes they're wearin',"
Bindle whispered to the exquisite youth, who with his two fellow-guests
had left the Office of Works.  "Ain't women funny shapes when they
ain't braced up!"

The youth looked at Bindle reproachfully.  He had not yet passed from
that period when women are mysterious and wonderful.

At the doors of several of the rooms heated arguments were in progress
as to who was the rightful occupant.  Inside they were all practically
the same, that was part of the scheme of the hotel.  The man with the
monocle was still engaged in a fierce altercation with the man in the
bath-robe, who was trying to enter No. 18.

"My wife's in there," cried the man in the bath-robe fiercely.

At this moment the deputy-manager appeared, a man whose face had
apparently been modelled with the object of expressing only two
emotions, benignant servility to the guests and overbearing contempt to
his subordinates.  As if by common consent, the groups broke up and the
guests hastened towards him.  His automatic smile seemed strangely out
of keeping with the crisis he was called upon to face.  Information and
questions poured in upon him.

"There's a girl in my bed."

"There's a man in my room."

"Somebody's got into my room."

"Is it fire?"

"It's a public scandal."

"This man has tried to take my trousers."

"Look here, I can't go about in this kit."

"I left my wife in room 18, and I can't find her."

"I shall write to _The Times_."

"I protest against this indecent exhibition."

The more questions and remarks that poured down upon him, the more
persistently the deputy-manager smiled.  He looked about him
helplessly.  Hitherto in the whole of his experience all that had been
necessary for him to do was to smile and promise attention, and bully
his subordinates.  Here was a new phase.  He wished the manager had not
chosen this week-end for a trip to Brighton.

The eyes of the deputy-manager roved round him like those of a trapped
animal seeking some channel of escape.  By a lucky chance they fell
upon the fireman who was just preparing to go off duty.  The
deputy-manager beckoned to him; the smile had left his face, he was now
talking to a subordinate.

"What's the meaning of this?" he enquired.

The fireman looked up and down the corridor.  He had been at the hotel
over ten years, that is, since its opening, and knew every inch of the
place.  From the crowd of figures he glanced along the corridor.  He
was a man of few words.

"Somebody's been 'avin' a joke.  The numbers 'ave all been changed.
That," pointing to No. 18, "is No. 15, and that," pointing to No. 24,
"is No. 21."

At the fireman's words angry murmurs and looks were exchanged.  Each of
the guests suspected the others of the joke.  The fireman, who was a
man of much resource as well as of few words, quickly solved the
problem by obtaining some envelopes and putting on the doors the right
numbers.  Within a quarter of an hour every guest had found either his
clothes, his lost one, or both, and the corridor was once more deserted.

"Well," murmured Bindle, as he stepped out of the service lift, "I
s'pose they won't be wantin' me again, so I'll go 'ome an' get a bit o'
sleep." And he walked off whistling gaily, whilst the fireman searched
everywhere for the one man the deputy-manager most desired to see.


II

On the Monday evening following the hotel episode Mr. and Mrs. Bindle
were seated at supper.  Bindle had been unusually conversational.  He
was fortunate in having that morning obtained employment at a
well-known stores.  He was once more a pantechnicon-man.  "King Richard
is 'isself again," he would say, when he passed from a temporary alien
employment to what he called the "legitimate."

He had felt it desirable to explain to Mrs. Bindle the cause of his
leaving the Splendid Hotel.  She had seen nothing at all humorous in
it, and Bindle had studiously refrained from any mention of women being
in the corridors.

He had just drawn away from the table, and was sitting smoking his pipe
by the fire, when there was a loud knock at the outer door.  He looked
up expectantly.

Mrs. Bindle went to the door.  From the passage he heard a familiar
voice enquiring for him.  It was Sanders, the foreman, who followed
Mrs. Bindle into the room.  He made no response to Bindle's pleasant,
"Good-evenin'."

"D'you know what you done?" enquired Sanders aggressively.  "You lost
me my ruddy job.  You did it a-purpose, and I've come to kill yer."

"Ain't yer 'ad enough of buryin'?" enquired Bindle significantly.
"Buryin' yer mother on Saturday, and now yer wants to kill yer ole pal
on Monday."

The menacing attitude of the foreman had no effect upon Bindle.  He had
a great heart and would cheerfully have stood up to a man twice the
size of Sanders.  The foreman made a swift movement in the direction of
Bindle.

"You stutterin', bespattered----Gawd!"

Mrs. Bindle, seeing that trouble was impending, had armed herself with
a very wet and very greasy dishcloth, which she had thrown with such
accurate aim as to catch the foreman full in the mouth.

"You dirty 'ound," she vociferated, "comin' into a Christian 'ome and
usin' that foul language.  You dirty 'ound, I'll teach yer."

Mrs. Bindle's voice rose in a high crescendo.  She looked about her for
something with which to follow up her attack and saw her favourite
weapon--the broom.

"You dirty-mouthed tyke," she cried, working herself into a fury.  "You
blasphemin' son o' Belial, take that."  Crack came the handle of the
broom on the foreman's head.  Without waiting to observe the result,
and with a dexterous movement, she reversed her weapon and charged the
foreman, taking him full in the middle with the broom itself.  In
retreating he stumbled over the coal-scuttle, and sat down with a
suddenness that made his teeth rattle.

Bindle watched the episode with great interest.  Never had he so
approved of Mrs. Bindle as at that moment.  Like a St. George
threatening the dragon she stood over the foreman.

"Now then, will yer say it again?" she enquired menacingly.  There was
no response.  "Say, 'God forgive me,'" she ordered.  "Say it," she
insisted, seeing reluctance in the foreman's eye.  "Say it, or I'll 'it
yer on yer dirty mouth with this 'ere broom.  I'm a daughter of the
Lord, I am.  Are yer goin' to say it or shall I change yer face for
yer?"

"God forgive me," mumbled the foreman, in a voice entirely devoid of
contrition.

Mrs. Bindle was satisfied.  "Now up yer get, and orf yer go," she said.
"I won't 'it yer again if yer don't talk, but never you think to come
a-usin' such words in a Christian 'ome again."

The foreman sidled towards the door warily, When he was within reach of
it he made a sudden dive and disappeared.

Bindle regarded his wife with approval as she returned from banging the
door after him.

"I didn't know," he remarked, "that they taught yer that sort of thing
at chapel.  I likes a religion that lets yer do a bit in the
knock-about business.  Can't understand you and 'Earty belongin' to the
same flock of sheep.  Rummy thing, religion," he soliloquised, as he
applied a match to his pipe; "seems to 'ave its Bank 'Olidays, same as
work."




CHAPTER VII

BINDLE COMMITS AN INDISCRETION

"Anyone would think you was goin' to a weddin'."  Mrs. Bindle eyed
Bindle aggressively.

"Not again; I got one little canary bird; two might make me un'appy."

Bindle had remembered his promise to his niece, Millie, in every
particular, and had added as his own contribution a twopenny cigar
resplendent in a particularly wide red-and-gold band, which he had been
careful not to remove.

"Anythink might 'appen to me in this get-up," he remarked pleasantly,
"so don't expect me till I'm 'ome----"

"You never take me out," broke in Mrs. Bindle stormily, "but you can
take that chit of a girl out first time she asks."

"You don't like the pictures, Mrs. B., they ain't 'oly enough, an' some
of the young women in 'em are a bit generous like with showin' their
ankles--but there, there!"

"You used to take me out before we was married," replied Mrs. Bindle,
ignoring Bindle's remark.

Bindle looked at her curiously.

"Them was the days when yer wasn't above goin' to a music-'all.  There
ain't nowhere to take yer 'cept the chapel, an' I don't enjoy it as you
an' 'Earty do."

"Where do you expect to go to?" demanded Mrs. Bindle angrily.  She
always became angry when mention was made of the pleasures she once
enjoyed.  "Where do you expect to go to?"

"Well," remarked Bindle judicially, "accordin' to you an' 'Earty it's a
place where yer don't 'ave to pay no water rates."

Mrs. Bindle sniffed derisively.

"Look 'ere, my one an' only," continued Bindle, "I got to 'ave a pretty
bad time in the next world, accordin' to wot you an' 'Earty believes,
so I'm goin' to the pictures an' I'll 'ave a drink or two in this.  If
I was as sure of 'eaven as you an' 'Earty is, maybe I'd be more
careful."

Mrs. Bindle banged the iron she was using down upon the rest, but made
no comment.

"Well, see you later, if I'm lucky," said Bindle, and he was gone.

He found Millie in a fever of expectation.  She opened the door to him
herself, looking very pretty and smart in her Sunday hat.

"I was so afraid you'd forget, uncle," she whispered, snuggling against
him as they walked along.  "You look so nice," she added.

Bindle looked down at himself and grinned.

"I pays for dressin'," he observed.  "The cigar was me own idea.  It
gives a sort o' finish, eh, Millikins?"

They walked past the Fulham Grand Theatre, and at the Cinema Palace on
the Fulham side of the bridge Bindle paused.

"Not this one, the one over the bridge," Millie cried anxiously.

"Further to walk for yer ole uncle."

"But--but--" faltered Millie, "Charlie Chaplin's at the other and I do
so want to see him."

"Charlie Chaplin's 'ere too, Millikins.  Look, it says so."

"Oh, uncle, please, _please_, the other one."  There were tears in
Millie's eyes and her voice shook.

Bindle was puzzled, but to please her he would have walked over many
bridges.

"Uncle, you _are_ good," was all she said as she smiled at him happily.

They passed over the bridge in silence, watching the stream of trams,
buses, and people.  When with Millie, Bindle never ventured upon those
little personalities in which he indulged when alone.

"Do yer like chapel, Millikins?" Bindle enquired suddenly.

"I hate it, Uncle Joe!"  There was such feeling and decision in
Millie's voice that Bindle turned and regarded her curiously.

"Why?"

"I want to be happy, oh! I do so want to be happy, Uncle Joe."  There
was almost a sob in Millie's voice and her eyes were moist with unshed
tears.

Bindle said nothing, but he pondered deeply as they walked slowly
along.  When they saw the brilliant lights of the Putney Pavilion
Millie visibly brightened.

As they entered Millie looked eagerly round, and a sigh of contentment
escaped her as her eyes rested on a tall, pale-faced youth who stood
smoking a cigarette.  He raised his hat about an inch from his head,
squaring his elbow in the process as if saluting.  The action was
awkward and sheepish.

Bindle looked from the young man to Millie, then remembering Millie's
distress at his suggestion of going to the other cinema, light dawned
upon him.  With elaborate courtesy, and to the youth's obvious
astonishment, he returned the salute, then walking across seized his
hand and shook it effusively.

"Millikins, this is a young man I used to know, but 'ave forgotten.  'E
remembers me, 'owever, and that's all that matters.  This is me niece
Millie," he added to the youth who, staring in utter bewilderment from
Bindle to Millie, stood with downcast head.

"Goin' in to see the pictures?" Bindle enquired casually.

"Er--no--er--yes, of course," stuttered the youth.

"Nice evenin' for pictures," continued Bindle, thoroughly enjoying the
situation.  "Don't yer think so?" he added, as the youth did not reply.

"Yes, very."

"Now you an' me's ole pals, but I've quite forgot yer name.  Is it
'Orace?"

"Dixon, Charlie Dixon."  A faint smile flickered across the young man's
face as he caught Millie's eye.  He was beginning to realise that
somewhere in this astonishing adventure there was fun, and that Bindle
had been first to see it.

For some seconds Bindle, who was a shrewd judge of character, regarded
the young man.  He was obviously nervous, but his grey eyes looked out
honestly from a rather pleasant face into those of Bindle.

Suddenly he laughed.  Millie looked from one to the other, her pretty
brows puckered.  The situation was obviously beyond her.

"Uncle, I want to speak to you, _please_."  Millie's voice was scarcely
audible.

"All right, my dear, we'll go and buy the tickets.  You wait here,
young feller," he added.  "We'll be back in two ticks."

When out of earshot Millie whispered shyly, "That's Charlie Dixon, and
we--we like each other, and I'm--I'm a wicked girl, Uncle Joe.  I told
him to be here and----"

"That's all right, Millikins, don't you worry."

Millie gave his arm an ecstatic squeeze as he left her to purchase the
tickets.

When Bindle and his niece rejoined Charlie Dixon Bindle's mind was made
up.  He liked the look of the young man.  He also remembered his own
youth, and a glance at the happy face of his niece decided him upon his
course of action.

"'Ow long 'ave yer known each other?" he enquired.

"More than six months," replied Charlie Dixon.

"Seems a lifetime, eh?" he grinned.

"I knew you'd understand, dear Uncle Joe," whispered the now radiant
Millie.

"Look 'ere," said Bindle to Charlie Dixon, "I jest remembered I got to
see a mate round the corner.  You two go in wi' these tickets and I'll
follow in ten minutes.  If I misses yer, be 'ere in this 'all at ten
sharp.  See?"

They both saw, and exchanged rapturous glances.

"Mind, ten sharp, or I'll get the sack."

"Thank you, Mr. Bindle," said Charlie Dixon, raising his hat, to which
Bindle responded with an elaborate sweep that brought a smile to the
face of the attendant.

Just before turning into Putney High Street Bindle looked round to see
Millie and Charlie Dixon in earnest converse, walking slowly towards
the door leading in to the pictures--and bliss.

Bindle sighed involuntarily.  "I wonder if I done right.  Funny thing
me playin' Coopid.  Wonder wot Mrs. B. and 'Earty 'ud say.  There's
goin' to be trouble, J. B., and you're a-goin' to get yerself in an
'oly sort o' mess.  If it 'adn't been for petticoats yer might a' been
Mayor of Fulham or Charlie Chaplin."

At a quarter to ten Bindle left a merry group of intimates at the
Scarlet Horse, and a few minutes later was waiting in the vestibule of
the Pavilion, where he was joined by the lovers.

"I never knew Millikins was such a pretty gal," muttered Bindle, as
they approached.  Then aloud, "Where'd you two got to?  I been
searchin' everywhere."

With a wealth of detail they explained exactly where they had been
sitting.

"Funny I didn't see yer," remarked Bindle.  "Now you two must say
good-night; and," turning to the youth, "if yer'll follow across the
bridge slowly, maybe I'll see yer outside the Grand Theatre after I've
taken this young woman 'ome."

Millie was strangely silent as the three crossed Putney Bridge.  She
was thinking deeply of her new-found happiness and, as she gripped
Bindle's arm with both hands, she felt that he represented her special
Providence.  She could tell him anything, for he understood.  She would
always tell Uncle Joe everything.

Outside Fulham Theatre she said good-night to Charlie Dixon.

"You ain't said a word since I met you, Millikins.  Wot's up?" enquired
Bindle, puzzled at Millie's silence.

"I've been wondering, Uncle Joe," replied the girl in a subdued voice.

"Wot about?  Tell yer ole uncle."

"I've been wondering why you are so good to me, and why you don't think
me a wicked girl."  Then, turning to him anxiously, "You don't, Uncle
Joe, do you?"

"Well, Millikins, there ain't any think very wicked, so far as I can
see, in wantin' to be 'appy in the way you do.  'Is nibs looks a nice
young chap, an' if 'e ain't 'e'll wish 'e'd never seen your ole uncle."
There was a grim note in Bindle's voice that surprised his niece.

"You don't think God minds us being happy that--that way, do you, Uncle
Joe?" questioned Millie earnestly.

"I'm sure 'E don't, Millikins.  'E's all for the 'appiness wot don't do
nobody any 'arm.  That parson chap told me, an' 'e was a dean or
somethink, an' 'e ought to know."

Millie drew a sigh of relief.  Then her mood suddenly changed.

"Uncle, let's run," she cried; and without waiting for the protest that
was forming itself on Bindle's lips, she caught him by the hand and
dashed off.  After a moment's hesitation Bindle entered into her mood
and the pair tore up Fulham High Street, Millie running obliquely in
front, striving to urge Bindle to a greater pace.

Just as they reached the Heartys' private door, Mr. Hearty himself
emerged on his way to post a letter.  Millie running sideways did not
see him.  Bindle was unable to avoid the inevitable collision, and
Millie's elbow took her father dead in the centre of his waistcoat and
drove the breath out of his body.

"Oh, father!" cried his horrified daughter.

"Millie!" gasped Mr. Hearty when he had regained sufficient breath for
speech.

"My fault, 'Earty.  I likes a run now and again; we was 'avin' a bit of
a race.  Millikins beats me in the matter o' legs."

To Mr. Hearty women had limbs, not legs, and he disliked intensely
Bindle's reference to those of his daughter.

"I hope this will not occur again," he said severely.  "I shall have to
stop these--these----"  Unable to find the word, Mr. Hearty passed on
to the pillar-box.

Millie stood watching him, horror in her eyes.

"Oh, Uncle Joe, am I a very bad girl?  Father always makes me feel so
wicked."

"'E'd make an 'oly saint feel a bit of a rip.  You're just about as bad
as a first-class angel; but p'raps it 'ud be better not to 'old sports
outside the shop.  Might get me a bad name.  Now in yer go, young 'un,
an' we'll 'ave another bust next Friday, eh?  I'll be seein' 'is nibs
on me way 'ome."

"Good-night, dear Uncle Joe.  I'm glad you're my uncle."  She put her
arms round his neck and kissed him, and Bindle experienced a curious
sensation in his throat.

"Gawd bless yer, Millikins," Bindle mumbled in an unsteady voice, as
she tripped along the passage.

"Fancy me sayin' that!" he muttered, as he closed the door.  "It kind
o' slipped out."

A few yards down the High Street Bindle met his brother-in-law
returning from the post.

"I'm sorry, 'Earty, about that collision.  It was all my fault.  I like
playin' wi' kids."  There was an unaccustomed humility in Bindle's
voice, assumed for the purpose of making things easier for Millie, that
pleased Mr. Hearty.

"Millie is no longer a child, Joseph," he remarked, "but we'll say no
more about it.  I'm not hurt.  Good-night."  He bared his yellow teeth
in token of forgiveness.

As he passed on, Bindle gazed up at the skies meditatively.  "I wonder
if Gawd really likes that sort?" he murmured with a seriousness that
was unusual to him.

Outside the theatre he found waiting for him Charlie Dixon, who greeted
him with:

"Will you bring her again, Mr. Bindle?"

"'Ere, I ain't a nurse, young feller.  Nice mess you got me in.  It's
all through you that Millikins nearly killed 'er father.  Ran clean
into 'im and sort o' knocked the wind out of 'is bellows."  Bindle told
the story of the collision with great gusto.

"Now," he continued, "you and me's got to 'ave a talk, an' we'll 'ave a
glass of beer at the same time."

Bindle learned the story of Millie's romance.  It appeared that she and
Charlie Dixon, who was in a shipping-office, went to the city by the
same train every morning, Millie being a typist at a wholesale
draper's.  Young Dixon had watched her week after week, and he
eventually became acquainted owing to a breakdown on the line, which
resulted in a corresponding breakdown of the passengers' usual reserve.
After that they went up regularly together, met at lunch, after
business hours and on every occasion that Millie could possibly manage
it.  Once they had each obtained a half-holiday, which they had spent
at the Zoo.

Charlie Dixon's frankness and obvious devotion to Millie Hearty
entirely won Bindle's heart.

"You will help us, Mr. Bindle, won't you?" he pleaded.

"Look 'ere, young feller," said Bindle, with an unusual note of
seriousness in his voice, "I don't know nothink about yer, an' before I
'elps I got to be sure wot I thinks yer are.  Now you jest get me a
letter or two from them as knows wot sort of a villain yer are, an'
then p'r'aps I'll be the same sort of ole fool I been to-night.  See?"

They parted with mutual regard and promises to meet again next Friday,
when Charlie Dixon was to bring such documents as would vouch for his
respectability.

"Yes; I been an ole fool," muttered Bindle, as he walked home.  "This
'ere business is goin' to lead to trouble between me an' 'Earty.  What
a pity people gets it as bad as 'Earty.  No man didn't ought to be
religious all the week.  It ain't natural."

That night Bindle entered his house whistling "Gospel Bells" with
unaccustomed abandon.

"Been enjoyin' yerself, leavin' me at 'ome to slave and get yer meals
ready," snapped Mrs. Bindle.  "One o' these days you'll come 'ome and
find me gone."

"'Oo's the man?" interrogated Bindle with a temerity that surprised
himself.

That night Bindle lay awake for some time thinking over life in general
and the events of the evening in particular.  He never could quite
understand why he had been precipitated into an atmosphere so foreign
to his nature as that surrounding Mrs. Bindle and Mr. Hearty.  He had
striven very hard to stem the tide of religious gloom as it spread
itself over Mrs. Bindle.  Unaware of the cause, he not unnaturally
selected the wrong methods, which were those of endeavouring to make
her "cheer up."

"The idea of goin' to 'eaven seems to make her low-spirited," was
Bindle's view.

Even Mrs. Bindle was not entirely proof against his sallies, and there
were times when a reluctant smile would momentarily relieve the grim
severity of her features.  There were occasions even when they chatted
quite amiably, until the recollection of Mr. Hearty, and the mental
comparison of his success with Bindle's failure, threw her back into
the slough from which she had temporarily been rescued.

"There must be somethink funny about me," Bindle had once confided to
Mrs. Hearty.  "My father was as religious as a woman wi' one leg, then
I gets Lizzie an' she turns away from me an' 'Mammon'--I don't rightly
know 'oo 'e is, but she's always talkin' about 'im--then you goes back
on me an' gives me a sort of brother-in-law 'oo's as 'oly as ointment.
You ain't been a real pal, Martha, really you ain't."

If called upon to expound his philosophy of life Bindle would have
found himself in difficulties.  He was a man whose sympathies were
quickly aroused, and it never troubled him whether the object of his
charity were a heathen, a Christian, or a Mormon.  On one occasion when
a girl had been turned out of doors at night by an outraged father who
had discovered his daughter's frailty, it was Bindle who found her
weeping convulsively near Putney Pier.  It was he who secured her a
night's lodging, and stood her friend throughout the troubled weeks
that followed, although it meant neither beer nor tobacco for some
months.

On another occasion a mate had been ill, and it was Bindle who each
week collected what pence he could from his fellow-workmen and made up
from his own pocket the amount necessary to keep the man, his wife, and
child.  To do this he had done work as a whitewasher and labourer,
never working less than one whole night a week in addition to his
regular occupation, until his mate was well again.

No one knew of these little acts, which Bindle kept profound secrets.
He would have felt ashamed had they become known, more particularly had
Mrs. Bindle or Mr. Hearty heard of them.

Once he had remarked, apropos some remark of Mr. Hearty's regarding
what in his opinion would be Heaven's attitude towards some unfortunate
wretch who had stolen food for his wife, "I shouldn't like to 'ave a
Gawd I'd sometimes 'ave to feel ashamed of," whereat Mr. Hearty had
become very red and embarrassed.




CHAPTER VIII

THE GREAT CONSPIRACY


I

At Harridge's Stores Bindle had made himself very popular with the
manager of the Furniture Removing Department.  His cheery outlook on
life, his racy speech and general trustworthiness resulted in his being
frequently entrusted with special jobs where reliability was required.

When the order was received to supply the refreshments for the Barton
Bridge Temperance Fête, Bindle was selected to go down to erect the
marquee and stalls, and be generally responsible for the safe transit
of the eatables and drinkables.

"Yer can always trust me wi' lemonade and religion," he had assured the
manager.  "I don't touch neither; they sort of goes to me 'ead."

The Barton Bridge Temperance Society had determined to celebrate the
twenty-fifth anniversary of its foundation in a manner that should
attract to it the attention of the temperance world.  After much
deliberation and heart-burning, an English Rustic Fête had been decided
upon.

The whole of the surrounding country had been put under contribution,
and everyone had responded either with generosity or with scorn.  Old
Sir John Bilder, of Bilder's Entire, had replied with ponderous humour
that he "would supply all the ale required."  When he received a
request for three gross of pint bottles of a particular kind of
temperance ale he had been surprised.  "Well, I'm damned!" was his
comment; but being a sportsman he had sent the ale, which he regarded
as a fair price for a good story.

Barton Bridge was proud of its Temperance Society, but prouder still of
its breadth of mind.  It had been a tradition for a quarter of a
century that the Society should be non-sectarian.  It is nothing to the
discredit of Barton Bridge that the Temperance Society was the only
thing in the place that had not been warped from its orbit by sect.

For a churchman to be discovered eating bread of Mr. Lacey's baking,
Mr. Lacey being a nonconformist, would have meant social ostracism.  He
must, by virtue of his beliefs, masticate none but bread kneaded and
baked by Mr. Carter, the church baker.

A one-time vicar had sought to demolish this "ridiculous wall of
prejudice" by dealing alternately with church and chapel tradesmen.
There had been no protest from the chapel people, but the indignation
of the church tradesmen had been so great, and their absence from
service so persistent, that the vicar had been forced to give way.
Tolerance was an acquired habit rather than an instinctive virtue in
Barton Bridge, and the temperance meetings were solemn minglings of
bodies accompanied by a warring of souls.

A witty Frenchman has said that, "In order to preserve the purity of
his home life, the Englishman invented the Continental excursion."  It
is a cynicism; but at least it shows how dear tradition is to the
Englishman's heart.  It was this same spirit of tradition that raised
above the strife of sect the Barton Bridge Temperance Society.

The question of the doctor was another instance of the effect of
tradition upon what, at first glance, might appear to be a grave
problem.  There was not room for two doctors at Barton Bridge, and no
doctor could reasonably be expected to be a bi-religionist.  It
therefore became the accepted thing that the Barton Bridge doctor
should attend neither church nor chapel; but it was incumbent upon him
to become a member of the Temperance Society.

The catering for the Temperance Fête had at first presented a serious
difficulty, and at one time had even threatened to divide the camp.
The church party recoiled in horror from the thought of eating
nonconformist sandwiches; whilst if the lemonade were of church
manufacture it would mean that scores of dissenters would have a
thirsty afternoon.

The problem had been solved by Lady Knob-Kerrick, who insisted that the
order should be placed with a London firm of caterers, which, as a
limited company, could not be expected to have religious convictions.
Thus it was that the order went to Harridge's Stores.


II

By eight o'clock on the morning of the Fête a pantechnicon was
lumbering its ungainly way along the Portsmouth Road.  Bindle sat
meditatively on the tail-board, smoking and obviously bored.

With the wholesome contempt of an incorrigible cockney he contemplated
the landscape.

"'Edges, trees, an' fields, an' a mile to walk for a drink.  Not me,"
he muttered, relighting his pipe with solemn gravity.

As the pantechnicon rumbled its ponderous way through hamlet and
village, Bindle lightly tossed a few pleasantries to the rustics who
stood aside to gaze at what, to them, constituted an incident in the
day's monotony of motor-cars and dust.

The morning advanced, and Bindle grew more direct in his criticisms on,
and contempt for, the bucolic life.  At last out of sheer loneliness he
climbed up beside the driver.

"'Owd jer like to live 'ere, ole son?" he enquired pleasantly, as they
approached a tiny hamlet where a woman, a child, and some ducks and
chickens seemed to be the only living inhabitants.

"All right with a bit o' land," responded the driver, looking about him
appreciatively.

Bindle gazed at his colleague curiously, then, feeling that they had
nothing in common regarding the countryside, continued:

"Funny thing you an' me comin' to a temperance fête."  Then regarding
the driver's face critically, he proceeded: "'Ope you've got yer
vanity-case wi' yer.  You'll want to powder that nose o' yours 'fore
the ladies come.  Course it's indigestion, only they mightn't believe
it."

The driver grunted.

"Fancy," continued Bindle, "'avin' to 'aul about chairs and make up
tables a day like this, an' on lemonade too.  Can't yer see it, mate,
in glass bottles wi' lemons stuck in the tops and no froth?"

The driver grumbled in his throat.

The start had been an early one and he was dry, despite several
ineffectual attempts to allay his thirst at wayside inns.

It was nearly eleven o'clock before a sprinkling of houses warned them
that they were approaching Barton Bridge.  Soon the pantechnicon was
awaking echoes in the drowsy old High Street.  Half-way along what is
practically the only thoroughfare stands the Pack Horse, outside which
the driver instinctively pulled up, and he and Bindle clambered down
and entered, ostensibly to enquire the way to the Fête ground.

Behind the bar stood Mr. Cutts, wearing the inevitable red knitted cap
without which no one had ever seen him during business hours.  He was
engaged in conversation with Dick Little, the doctor's son, and by
common consent the black sheep of Barton Bridge.  The subject of their
talk was temperance.  He showed no particular inclination to come
forward, and Bindle was extremely thirsty.

After regarding the red cap for a moment Bindle approached the landlord.

"No offence, your 'Oliness!  Sorry to be a noosance, but can yer tell
me where the Temperance Fête is to be 'eld?  Me and my mate is
delegates come all the way from London.  No; your 'Oliness is wrong,
it's indigestion.  That nose of 'is always takes a lot of explainin'."

Mr. Cutts flushed a deep purple at the reference to his cap.  He wore
it to hide his baldness, and was extremely sensitive.  Dick Little
laughed outright.  It was he who answered Bindle.

"Half a mile up, and down the avenue of poplars."

"D' yer 'ear, mate?"  Bindle turned to the driver.  "D' yer know a
poplar when yer see it?  Same for me."  The last remark referred to the
driver's order for a pint of ale.  After finishing his draught the
driver went out to see to the watering of his horses, whilst Mr. Cutts,
having cast at Bindle a look which he conceived to be of withering
scorn, retired to his parlour.

"Seem to 'ave 'urt Old Bung's feelin's," Bindle remarked genially to
Dick Little.

"You said you were going to the Temperance Fête?"

"Yes; we're carryin' along the buns, sangwidges, cakes, an' lemonade,
likewise tents and things."

"Like a drink?" enquired Little.

"Well!" grinned Bindle judicially, as he surveyed his empty glass, "it
would lay the dust a bit; provided," he added with mock gravity, "it
ain't a split soda.  Never could digest split sodas.  Where's 'is
'Oliness?" he enquired, looking round.

"Never mind him," responded Little, taking a flask from his pocket.
"Wash the glass out."

Bindle did so, and threw the water in a delicate line upon the floor.
Little emptied the greater part of the contents of the flask into the
glass held before him.  With a happy look in his eyes Bindle took a
short drink, tasted the liquid critically, looked at Little, then with
a puzzled expression emptied the glass at the second attempt.

"Wot jer call it, sir?  It's new to me," he remarked, as he replaced
his glass upon the counter.

"It hasn't got a name yet.  I make it myself.  It's not bad, eh?"

"It beats all I've ever tasted, sir.  It ain't for suckin'-babes,
though.  Pretty strong."

"Yes; you said you had lemonade for the Temperance Fête in there,
didn't you?" enquired Little.

"Well, not exactly, sir.  It's got to be watered down, see?  Ther'll be
about fifty gallons, 'sides bottled stuff."

"Are you open to earn a sovereign?" asked Little.

"Well, sir, it's funny you should arst that.  Jest 'fore I came away
from 'ome this morning my missus told me the Income Tax paper 'ad come
in.  That ole Lloyd George is fairly messin' up my estates.  Yes, I
don't mind if I do."

At this moment the driver put his head in at the door and muttered
something about getting on.

"'Arf a mo', ole son," responded Bindle; then turning to Little added
with a grin, "I makes it a rule never to keep me 'orses waitin',
mister; the coachman gets so cross."

When Mr. Cutts returned to the bar he saw Dick Little in deep
conversation with Bindle, which surprised him.  He saw Bindle's face
irradiating joy and heard him remark:

"'Old me, somebody, 'old me, I say!  You jest leave it to me, sir."

Presently they both went out.  A moment later the pantechnicon rumbled
off, leaving Mr. Cutts still wondering.

The pantechnicon lumbered on towards the meadow adjoining Kerrick
Castle, which had been placed at the disposal of the committee of the
Temperance Society by its owner.  On the tail-board sat Bindle, a
metamorphosed Bindle.  All the morning's gloom had vanished from his
features, giving place to a joy not entirely due to the partial
quenching of a persistent thirst.

Dick Little walked slowly home to an early lunch.  He had many old
scores to settle with Barton Bridge, and he realised that there was an
excellent chance of a balance being struck that afternoon.

His one anxiety was lest his father should be involved.  Between Dr.
Little and his two sons, Dick and Tom, there was little in common save
a great bond of affection.  Dr. Little was serious-minded, inclined to
be fussy, but of a generous nature and a genial disposition that gained
for him the regard of all his patients.  His son Dick was a rollicking
dandy, an inveterate practical joker, and the leader of every
mischievous escapade at St. Timothy's Hospital, known as "Tim's," where
he enjoyed an all-round popularity.


III

By half-past one o'clock everything was ready for the Temperance Fête.
The large marquee had been erected, the chairs and tables had been
dotted about the meadow.  Rustic stalls, gay with greenery and bunting,
invited the visitor to refresh himself.  In the centre of a roped-off
space stood a gaily beribboned maypole.

A "cokernut shy," a Punch-and-Judy Show, and the old English game of
Aunt Sally were some of the diversions provided.  There was also to be
Morris dancing, the dancers having been trained by Miss Slocum, the
vicar's daughter, aided, for reasons of policy rather than individual
prowess, by Miss McFie, the sister of the Congregational minister.  The
girl attendants in their gaily coloured dresses and sun-bonnets, and
the men in smock-frocks and large straw hats, added picturesqueness to
the scene.

Bindle's activity had been prodigious.  With the ease of a man who is
thoroughly conversant with his subject, he had taken charge of the
drink department.  The lemonade had been distributed to the various
stalls, and the right amount of water added, according to the
directions upon each cask.  Every drop of water had been fetched under
the supervision of Bindle himself.

On arriving at the Fête ground Bindle had gone direct to a corner of
the meadow and brought forth half a dozen stone jars, each capable of
holding about two gallons.  The contents of these he had carefully
poured into the casks containing the nucleus of the lemonade.  These
same jars had been subsequently used for fetching water with which to
weaken the lemonade.

Finally they had been stowed away in the far end of the pantechnicon.

Bindle stood out in strong relief from the other workers, both on
account of his costume and personality.  He wore the green baize apron
of his class.  On his head was the inevitable cricket cap.  His face
had taken on the same hue as his nose, and the smile that irradiated
his features transcended in its joyous abandon the smiles of all the
others.  For everyone he had a merry word.  In the short space of two
hours he had achieved an astonishing popularity.

By three o'clock the Fête was in full swing.  Every stable in Barton
Bridge was full, and the High Street presented a curious appearance,
with its rows of horseless carriages, carts, and traps.  The
coach-houses and available sheds had all been utilised to give shelter
to the scores of horses.  The members of the committee, wearing big
dark-blue rosettes, smiled largely their satisfaction.  They knew that
reporters were present from _The Blue Ribbon News_ and _The Pure Water
World_.

Bindle had entered into the spirit of the revelry in a way that
attracted to him the attention of many members of the organising
committee.

"An extremely droll fellow, quite a valuable addition to our
attendants," the vicar remarked to the Rev. Andrew McFie, the young
Congregational pastor, as they stood surveying the scene.

"An admeerable man, Meester Slocum," the cautious Scot had replied.  "I
have no wish to be uncharitable, but I meestrust his nose."

Entirely unconscious that he was a subject of conversation between the
two shepherds of Barton Bridge, Bindle was standing behind a
refreshment stall that he had appropriated to himself, surrounded by an
amused crowd of revellers.

He was discoursing upon the virtues of lemonade upon a hot day.  "Give
'er a drink, sir," he called to one sheepish-looking rustic, who stood
grasping in his the hand of a lumpy, red-faced girl.  "Give 'er a
drink, sir, do, or she'll faint.  'Er tongue's almost 'anging out as it
is.  Be a sport.  No, miss, it's no use your looking at me; my wife
won't let me."

As they took their first sip of the much-praised lemonade, many looked
wonderingly at Bindle.  There was about it an unaccustomed something
that they could not quite analyse or describe.  Whatever it was, it was
pleasant to the taste, and it gave them courage.  Eyes that had
previously been sheepish became merry, almost bold.  The prospect of
joy seemed nearer.

The fame of the lemonade soon spread.  The fringes about the stalls
deepened.  The air became bright with shouts and laughter.

A spirit of wild revelry was abroad.  The cokernut-shy was the centre
of an uproarious throng.  Balls were bought and flung with such
wildness that none dared to replace the cokernuts that had been knocked
off, or to fetch what by rights was his own property.

Mr. Slocum and Mr. McFie strolled round the grounds, sedately benign.
They, the representatives of a Higher Power, must of necessity keep
aloof from such pleasures, even temperance pleasures; still, they were
glad to see about them evidences of such simple and wholesome gaiety.

With measured steps they approached a considerable group of young
people who were laughing and shouting boisterously.  When within about
twenty yards of the crowd it suddenly opened out.

"It's a race, sir," shouted someone, and they smilingly stood aside to
see the sport.  A moment after their smiles froze upon their faces and
gave place to a look of wonder and of horror.  It was indeed a race;
but such a race!  Coming towards them were five youths, each bearing,
pick-a-back fashion, a girl.  There was an exhibition of feminine
frilleries that caused the reverend gentlemen to gasp, to look at each
other quickly and then turn hurriedly aside.  When just opposite to
where they stood, one couple came to the ground and the pair following
immediately behind fell over the others.  Mr. McFie blushed, and Mr.
Slocum, remembering his companion's youth, gripped him by the arm and
hurried him away with a muttered, "Dreadful, dreadful!"

No other word was spoken until they reached the refreshment-stall over
which Bindle presided, and then the vicar once more murmured,
"Dreadful!"

"Have you any tea?" enquired Mr. McFie, more from a desire to say
something than a feeling of thirst.

"No, sir," responded Bindle, "tea's over there, sir.  Try the lemonade,
sir; it's A-1.  It'll pull yer together, sir.  Do try it, sir," Bindle
added eagerly.  "You look 'ot and tired, sir.  It'll do yer good."

The two pastors looked curiously at Bindle, but accepted each without
comment a glass of lemonade.  They put it to their lips, tasted it,
looked at each other and then drank greedily.

"Another, sir?" enquired Bindle of the vicar when he had finished his
glass.

"Er ... no," murmured Mr. Slocum; but Bindle had already refilled his
glass and was doing a like service for Mr. McFie.  When they left the
stall it was arm-in-arm, and Mr. McFie directed his steps to the spot
where, a few minutes previously, he had received so severe a shock; but
the sport was over and the crowd had dispersed.




CHAPTER IX

THE TEMPERANCE FÊTE

When Lady Knob-Kerrick drove round to the Fête ground she was surprised
to find the gate open and unattended, but was rendered speechless with
astonishment at the noise that assailed her ears.  At first she thought
there had been an accident; but in the medley of hoarse shouts and
shrill screams she clearly distinguished the sound of laughter.  She
turned to Miss Isabel Strint, her companion, whom she always persisted
in treating as she would not have dared to treat her maid.  Miss Strint
elevated her eyebrows and assumed a look that was intended to be purely
tentative, capable of being developed into either horror or amusement.

"People say it takes beer to make the lower classes gay," remarked her
ladyship grimly.

"I'm sure they couldn't make more noise if they were intoxicated,"
responded Miss Strint, developing the tentative look into one of amused
tolerance.

"Strint, you're a fool!" remarked Lady Knob-Kerrick.

Miss Strint subsided.

Lady Knob-Kerrick looked round her disapprovingly.  She was annoyed
that no one should be there to welcome her.

"Strint, see if you can find Mr. Slocum and Mr. McFie, and tell them I
am here."  Then to the footman, "Thomas, come with me."

At that moment Dick Little came towards the small group.

"How d'you do, Lady Kerrick?" he smiled easily.  "Delighted to be the
first to welcome the Lady of the Feast.  May I get you some
refreshment?"

"You may not," was the ungracious response.

Lady Knob-Kerrick disliked both Little and his well-bred manner.  She
was accustomed to deference and servility.  She also disapproved of
what she conceived to be her daughter Ethel's interest in the doctor's
son, and for that reason had not brought her to the Fête.

With a smile and a lifting of his hat, Little passed on in the
direction of Barton Bridge.

Just as Lady Knob-Kerrick was preparing to descend from her carriage, a
girl with a flushed face darted round the canvas screen that had been
erected inside the gate.  A moment after a man followed, coatless,
hatless, and flushed.  He caught her, lifted her in his arms and
carried her back laughing and screaming.  Neither had seen the carriage
or its occupants.  Tool, the coachman, looked only as a well-trained
man-servant can look, wooden; but Thomas grinned, and was withered by
his mistress's eye.

The man who had pursued and caught the girl was Mr. Marsh, the people's
churchwarden, a widower with grown-up daughters.

With an air of stern determination, Lady Knob-Kerrick descended from
her carriage and marched boldly round the screen.  Never had she beheld
such a scene.  She did not faint, she did not cry out, she grimly stood
and watched.

Bindle had relinquished his refreshment-stall to assume the direction
of the revels.  All seemed to look to him for inspiration.  The dingy
cricket cap was to be seen bobbing about everywhere, his grin of
enjoyment was all-embracing.  He it was who set the Morris dancers
going and picked them up when they fell.  He it was who explained to
Miss Slocum, who hitherto had refreshed herself with tea, that their
inability to keep an upright position was due to the heat.

"It's the 'eat, miss, 'as a wonderful effect.  Look at 'er now."  He
indicated to Miss Slocum's horror-stricken gaze the form of Miss McFie,
who was sitting on the ground, hat awry, singing quietly to herself.

It was Bindle, too, who fetched for Miss Slocum a glass of lemonade,
after which she seemed to see more with the others.

The maypole dance was in full progress when Lady Knob-Kerrick entered
the meadow.  Youths and girls, men and women staggered unsteadily round
the gaily decorated scaffold-pole that had been lent by Mr. Ash, the
builder.  Lady Knob-Kerrick distinguished many of her tenants among the
fringe of stumbling humanity, and two of her own domestics.

The principal object of the men dancers seemed to be to kiss each girl
as she passed, and that of the girls to appear to try to avoid the
caress without actually doing so.  The dance ended prematurely, there
being none of the dancers any longer capable of preserving an upright
position.

A little to the right of the maypole Lady Knob-Kerrick beheld the Rev.
Andrew McFie, who was endeavouring to give a representation of his
native sword-dance to an enthusiastic group of admirers.  On his head
was a pink sunbonnet, round his waist, to represent a kilt, was tied a
girl's jacket.  His trousers were tucked up above the knee.  On the
ground sat a girl producing, by the simple process of holding her nose
and tapping her throat, strange piercing noises intended to represent
the bagpipes.

In another part of the meadow Mr. Grint, the chapel butcher, and an
elder of irreproachable respectability, was endeavouring to instruct a
number of girls in the intricacies of a quadrille, which, as he
informed them, he had once seen danced in Paris.  It was this
exhibition of shameless abandon that decided Lady Knob-Kerrick upon
immediate action.

"Strint," she called, looking about for her companion, "Strint."  But
Miss Strint was at that moment the centre of a circle of laughing,
shouting, and shrieking men and women, hesitating in her choice of the
man she should kiss.

"Thomas!"

"Yes, m'lady," replied Thomas, his eyes fixed intently upon a group of
youths and girls who were performing a species of exalted barn dance.

"Fetch Saunders and Smith; tell them to fix the fire-hose to the
hydrant nearest the meadow, and connect as many lengths as are
necessary to reach where I am standing.  Quick!"

The last word was uttered in a tone that caused Thomas to wrench his
eyes away from the dancers as if he had been caught in the act of some
impropriety.

"Yes, m'lady," and he reluctantly left the scene of festivity, full of
envy and self-pity.

As Thomas disappeared round one side of the canvas screen, Dr. Little
bustled round the other.  He had been detained by an important patient
who lived ten miles away.  When his eyes beheld the scene before him,
he stopped as if he had been shot.  He looked about in a dazed fashion.
Then he closed his eyes and looked again.  Finally he saw Lady
Knob-Kerrick, and hurried across to her.

"Dear me, dear me!" he fussed.  "Whatever does this mean?  Is everybody
mad?"

"Either that or intoxicated, doctor.  I'm not a medical man.  I've sent
for my fire-hose."  There was a note of grim malevolence in Lady
Knob-Kerrick's voice.

"Your fire-hose?  I--I don't understand!"  The doctor removed his
panama and mopped his forehead with a large handkerchief.

"You will when it comes," was the reply.

"Dear me, dear me!" broke out the alarmed doctor; "but surely you're
not----"

"I am," interrupted Lady Knob-Kerrick.  "I most certainly am.  It's my
meadow."

"Dear me!  I must enquire into this.  Dear me!"  And the doctor trotted
off in the direction of the maypole.  The first object he encountered
was the prostrate form of the vicar, who lay under the shadow of a
refreshment-stall, breathing heavily.  The doctor shook him.

"Slocum," he called.  "Slocum!"

"Goo' fellow tha'," was the mumbled response.  "Make him my curate.  Go
'way."

"Good God!" ejaculated the doctor.  "He's drunk.  They're all drunk.
What a scandal."

He sat down beside the vicar, trying to think.  He was stunned.
Eventually he was aroused from his torpor of despair by a carelessly
flung cokernut hitting him sharply on the elbow.  He looked round
quickly to admonish the culprit.  At that moment he caught sight of the
Rev. Andrew McFie arm-in-arm with Mr. Wace, the vicar's churchwarden,
singing at the top of their voices, "Who's your Lady Friend?"  Mr.
McFie's contribution was limited to a vigorous but tuneless drone.  He
was obviously unacquainted with either the melody or the words, but was
anxious to be convivial.  He also threw in a rather unsteady sort of
dance.  Mr. Wace himself seemed to know only about two lines of the
song, and even in this there were gaps.

"Shisssssssssssh!"  The two roysterers were on their backs gasping and
choking beneath a deluge of water.  Lady Knob-Kerrick's hose had
arrived, and in the steady hands of Saunders, the head-gardener, seemed
likely to bring the Temperance Fête to a dramatic conclusion.

"A water-spout!" mumbled Mr. Wace vacuously.

"Water spout!" cried Mr. McFie.  "It's that red-headed carlin wi' the
hose."

With a yell of rage he sprang to his feet and dashed at Saunders.  Lady
Knob-Kerrick screamed, Dr. Little uttered a plaintive "Dear me!"
Saunders stood as if petrified, clinging irresolutely to the hose.  He
was a big man and strong, but the terrifying sight of the minister
bearing down upon him with murder in his eyes clearly unnerved him.
Releasing his hold of the hose he incontinently bolted.  For a moment
the force of the water caused the hose to rear its head like a snake
preparing to strike, then after a moment's hesitation it gracefully
descended, and discharged its stream full in the chest of Dr. Little,
who sat down upon the grass with a sob of surprise.

McFie's yell had attracted to him an ever-enlarging crowd.

"Turned the hose on me," he explained thickly.  "Me, Andrew McFie of
Auchinlech."  Suddenly catching sight of the retreating form of Lady
Knob-Kerrick, he yelled, "It's all her doin', the old sinner."

With a whoop he sprang after Lady Knob-Kerrick, who at that moment was
disappearing round the canvas screen seeking her carriage.  The crowd
followed, and some bethought themselves of the hose.

Lady Knob-Kerrick was just in the act of getting into her carriage when
the jet of water from the hose took her in the small of the back and
literally washed her into her seat as, a moment later, it washed her
coachman off his.  The horses reared and plunged; but McFie and Bindle
rushed to their heads.  Several men busied themselves with undoing the
traces, the frightened animals were freed from the pole, and a cut from
the whip, aided by the noise of the crowd, was sufficient to send them
clattering down the road.

Hitherto Bindle had been by tacit consent the leading spirit; but now
the Rev. Andrew McFie assumed the mantle of authority.  Ordering the
coachman and footman to take their mistress home, he caused the
carriage to be drawn into the meadow and placed across the gateway,
thus forming a barricade.  This done, he mounted upon the box and
harangued the throng.

Cokernuts and the balls used at the shies, together with the Aunt Sally
sticks, were collected and piled up near the gate, and every
preparation made to hold the meadow against all comers.  McFie
succeeded in working his hearers into a state of religious frenzy.
They danced and sang like mad creatures, ate and drank all that was
left of the provisions and lemonade, made bonfires of the stalls and
tables; in short, turned Lady Knob-Kerrick's meadow into a very
reasonable representation of an inferno.

"There's a-goin' to be trouble over this 'ere little arternoon's
doin's," murmured Bindle to himself, as he slipped through a hole in
the hedge and made his way towards Barton Bridge, whither he had
already been preceded by a number of the more pacific spirits.  "The
cops 'll be 'ere presently, or I don't know my own mother."

Bindle was right.  Lady Knob-Kerrick had telephoned to Ryford, and the
police were already on their way in three motor-cars.

At Barton Bridge they were reinforced by the two local constables and
later by the men-servants from the Castle.  When they arrived at the
entrance to the meadow they found McFie leading an extremely
out-of-tune rendering of "Onward, Christian Soldiers."  Immediately he
saw the approaching forces of Mammon, as he called them, he climbed
down from his post of vantage and secured the hose.

The police and the retainers from the Castle approached the carriage to
remove it and thus gain entrance to the meadow.  Led by the red-faced
superintendent from Ryford, they presented an imposing array.  Allowing
them to approach quite close, McFie suddenly gave the signal for the
water to be turned on.  He had taken the precaution to post men at the
hydrant to protect it.

The superintendent's legs flew up into the air as the jet of water
caught him beneath the chin.  In a few seconds the attacking party had
been hosed into a gasping, choking, and struggling heap.  Cokernuts,
wooden balls, sticks, bits of chairs, glasses and crockery rained upon
them.

The forces of Mammon gathered themselves together and retired in
disorder.  Andrew McFie's blood was up.  Victory was at hand.  In his
excitement he committed the tactical blunder of causing the carriage to
be removed, that he might charge the enemy and complete its
discomfiture.  His followers, however, had too long been accustomed to
regard the police with awe, and most of the men, fearful of being
recognised, sneaked through holes in the hedges, and made their way
home by circuitous routes.

Those who remained, together with a number of girls and women, fought
until they were overpowered and captured, and the Barton Bridge
Temperance Fête came to an inglorious end.


That same evening, having laden the van with such of the property and
tents as had not been utilised for bonfires and missiles, Bindle took
his seat on the tail-board, and the van lumbered off in the direction
of London.

He proceeded to review the events of the day.  What particularly
diverted him was the recollection of the way in which horses and
vehicles had been mixed up.

When he had returned to the High Street he found there numbers of those
who had visited the Fête and were now desirous only of getting home.
He helped them to harness their horses, assuring them that the beasts
were theirs.  If he were asked for a dog-cart he selected the first to
hand, and then sought out a horse of suitable size and harnessed it to
the vehicle.

If any demur were made, or if identification marks were sought, he
hurried the objector off, telling him that he ought to be glad he had
got a horse at all.

Bindle was grinning comfortably at the thought of the days it would
take to sort out the horses and vehicles, when he saw in the distance a
bicycle being ridden by someone obviously in a hurry.

As it came nearer he recognised the rider as Dick Little, who pedalled
up beside the van and tendered a sovereign to Bindle.

"No, sir," Bindle remarked, shaking his head.  "I'm a bit of a sport
myself.  Lord! wasn't they drunk!"  He chuckled quietly.  "That young
parson chap, too.  No, sir, I been paid in fun."

After a somewhat lengthy discussion carried on in whispers, so that the
driver should not hear, Bindle suggested that Dick Little had better
come inside the van, as if anyone were to see them it might result in
suspicion.

"Yer seem to like a little joke," he added.  "I can tell yer about some
as won't make yer want to cry."

An hour later, when Dick Little hunched his bicycle from the tail of
the van he said:

"Well, come and see me in London; I'm generally in Sunday evenings."

"Right, sir; I will," replied Bindle; "but might I arst, sir, wot it
was that made 'em so fidgety?"

"It was pure alcohol mixed with distilled mead," was the reply.

"Well, it done the trick.  Good-night, sir.  Lord! won't there be some
'eads wantin' 'oldin' in the mornin'," and he laughed joyously as the
pantechnicon rumbled noisily Londonwards.




CHAPTER X

MR. HEARTY PRAYS FOR BINDLE

Mrs. Bindle had just returned from evening chapel.  On Sundays,
especially on Sunday evenings, when there had been time for the
cumulative effect of her devotions to manifest itself, Mrs. Bindle was
always in a chastened mood.  She controlled those gusts of temper which
plunged her back into the Doric and precipitated Bindle "into 'ell,
dust an' all."

On this particular evening she was almost gentle.  The bangs with which
she accentuated the placing of each plate and dish upon the table were
_piano_ bangs, and Bindle duly noted the circumstance.

With him Sunday was always a day of intellectual freedom.  He aired his
views more freely on that than on other days.

Having laid the supper, Mrs. Bindle began to remove her bonnet.  With a
hat-pin in her mouth and her hands stretched behind her head in the act
of untying an obstreperous veil that rested like a black line across
the bridge of her nose, she remarked, in that casual tone which with
her betokened an item of great interest and importance:

"Mr. Hearty prayed for you to-night, Bindle."

Bindle sat up in his chair as if he had been shot.

"'Earty wot?" he interrogated, with unaccustomed anger in his voice,
and an unwonted flash in his eye.  "'Earty wot?"

"He prayed for you," replied Mrs. Bindle in what was for her a hushed
voice; "a beautiful prayer about a brother who had fallen by the
wayside, a wheat-ear among thorns."

"'_E_ prayed for _me--'im_?"

Bindle removed his pipe from his mouth, and gripping the bowl between
thumb and finger, pointed what remained of the stem at Mrs. Bindle, as
she stuck a hat-pin through her bonnet and placed it on the dresser.

"'_E_ prayed for _me_?"  The words came with such deliberation and
intensity that Mrs. Bindle glanced round sharply.

"Yes!" she snapped, "an' you want it.  You're nothin' but an 'eathen."
Mrs. Bindle was forgetting her careful articulation.

"A brother fallen by the roadside----"

"Wayside," corrected Mrs. Bindle, as she banged a loaf on the table.

"A brother 'oo 'as fallen by the wayside, a wheat-ear among thorns,"
murmured Bindle as if to himself.  Suddenly he grinned; the humour of
the thing seemed to strike him.  "Prayed for in church--leastwise
chapel--jest like the Royal Family an' rain.  You're comin' on, Joe
Bindle," he chuckled.

"Seems to amuse you," remarked Mrs. Bindle as she took her place at the
table.

"Yer've 'it it," replied Bindle, as he skilfully opened the tin of
salmon.  "Yer've just 'it it.  Alfred 'Earty was sent to annoy 'eaven
with 'is 'ymns and tickle up Joe Bindle with 'is prayers."

"If you was more like what he is, you'd be a better man."

"'Earty is as 'Earty does," flashed Bindle with a grin.  Then after a
pause to enable him to reduce a particularly large mouthful of bread
and salmon to conversational proportions, he continued:

"If I 'ad the runnin' of this 'ere world, there'd be some rather big
alterations, with a sort of 'end o' the season' sale, an' there'd be
some pretty cheap lines in parsons an' greengrocers, not to speak of
chapel-goers."

"I'm surprised at you, Bindle, talking such blasphemies in a Christian
'ome.  Unless you stop I'll go out."

"Not while there's any salmon left, Mrs. B.," remarked Bindle
oracularly.

"You're a bad man.  I done my best, I'm sure----"

"You 'ave; if yer'd done yer second best or yer third best, Joe Bindle
might 'a been a better man than wot 'e is."  Bindle dug a morsel of
salmon out of the tin with the point of his knife.  "I been too well
brought up, that's wot's the matter wi' me."

"You're always scoffin' and sneerin' at me an' the chapel," responded
Mrs. Bindle tartly.  "It don't hurt me, whatever you may think."

"There you're wrong, me blossom."  Bindle was in high spirits.  His
mind had been busily at work, and he saw a way of "bein' a bloomin'
thorn in 'Earty's wheat-ear 'ole."

"I ain't a scoffer; it's just that I don't understan' 'ow a thing wot
was meant to make people 'appy, seems to make 'em about as joyful as a
winkle wot feels the pin."

"Winkles are boiled first," retorted the literal Mrs. Bindle, wiping
round her plate with a piece of bread; "an' bein' dead don't feel pins.
I wouldn't eat them if it hurt.  Besides, winkles haven't anythin' to
do with religion."

"That's wot makes 'em so tasty," retorted Bindle.  "You an' 'Earty 'ave
sort o' spoiled me appetite for religion; but winkles still 'old me."
After a short silence he continued, "I never see a religious cove yet
wot I 'ad any likin' for, leastwise, wot said 'e was religious.  It's a
funny thing, but as soon as people become good they seems to get about
as comfortable to live with as an 'edge'og in bed.

"Funny thing, religion," Bindle continued.  "There was one cove I
know'd 'oo spent 'is time in 'avin' D.T.'s and gettin' saved, about
'alf an' 'alf, with a slight leanin' to D.T.'s.  We called 'im Suds an'
Salvation, 'suds' bein' 'is name for beer.

"Look at 'Earty, now.  'E's always talkin' of 'eaven, but 'e ain't in
no 'urry to get there.  'E's as nippy as a cat if 'e 'ears a motor
'ooter when 'e's crossin' the road; and 'e 'ustles like 'ell to get
inside of a bus when it's rainin'."

"His life is not 'is own, and he's waitin' his call."

Bindle looked up with a laugh.

"'Ow'll 'e know it's for 'im an' not next door?" he asked.

"I won't listen to your evil talk," announced Mrs. Bindle, half rising
from her chair, and then resuming her seat again as if thinking better
of her determination.

"When," continued Bindle imperturbably, "I 'ears of a place where the
beer's better an' cheaper than wot I gets 'ere, orf I goes like a bunny
after a lettuce.  Now you an' 'Earty knows that in 'eaven 'appiness is
better an' cheaper than wot it is 'ere, yet yer does all yer can to
keep away from it; and they're all the same.  That's wot does me."

"If you wasn't such an 'eathen you'd understand," stormed Mrs. Bindle,
"and my life would be 'appier.  You won't go to chapel, an' you won't
'ave a bath, and----"

"I don't 'old with all this talk o' washin'.  It ain't natural," broke
in Bindle cheerfully.  "Look at the ladies.  Wot do they do?  When they
gets sort o' soiled, do they wash?  Not a bit of it; they shoves on
another coat of powder to cover it up.  I seen 'em doin' it."

"Scarlet women!"  Mrs. Bindle's jaws snapped loudly.

"Yes, an' pink an' white 'uns too.  I seen all sorts doin' it--which
reminds me of 'ow ole Snooker lorst 'is job.  'E wos sent round by 'is
guv'nor to a lady with an estimate for white-washin' and paper-'angin'.
When she saw the price she gives a sort of screech o' surprise.

"'This is very expensive,' she says.  'It didn't cost little more than
'alf this last time.'

"'It's the right price, mum,' says Snooker.  'I been through it
myself,' 'e says.

"'But I don't understand,' says she.

"'Well, mum,' says Snooker, 'there's the ceilin's to be washed off,' 'e
says, 'an' the old paper to be stripped off the walls,' 'e says, 'and
it all takes time.'

"'But is that necessary?' says the lady.

"'Well, mum,' says Snooker, quiet like, 'yer wouldn't put clean
stockin's on dirty legs, would yer?' says 'e.

"She was as angry as an 'en, and wrote in that Snooker 'ad been sayin'
disgustin' things, 'im wot blows a cornet in the Salvation Band o'
Sundays.  Why, 'e ain't got enough wind left on week-days to be
disgustin' with.  Any'ow 'e lorst 'is job, and the lady went to someone
else as didn't talk about legs."

"Y' ought to be ashamed of yourself, Joseph Bindle, telling me such
lewd tales."

"'Lewd!'  Wot's that?" queried Bindle.

"An abomination in the sight of the Lord," replied Mrs. Bindle
sententiously.  "Your talk ain't fit for a woman to listen to.  Last
time we was at Mr. Hearty's you was speakin' of babies in front of
Millie.  I went hot all over."

"Is babies lewd then?" enquired Bindle innocently.

"They're born in sin."

"Oh, Lord!" grinned Bindle, "I'm always doin' it.  Fancy babies bein'
as bad as that."

"You shouldn't speak about them before a young girl like Millie."

"Babies is funny things," remarked Bindle, replacing his empty glass on
the table, and wiping his mouth with the back of his disengaged hand.
"Babies is funny things.  If yer want one it never seems to come; but
if yer don't want 'em it rains babies, an' 'fore yer know it you've got
a dose or two o' triplets at three pound a bunch from the King.  There
wos 'Arry Brown; 'e wanted a kid, and 'e 'ated kittens.  Yet 'is missis
never 'ad a baby, though the cat was always 'avin' kittens, which shows
as there wasn't anythink wrong wi' the 'ouse."

"I'm goin' to bed," announced Mrs. Bindle, as she rose.  "Your talk
ain't fit for decent ears to listen to.  If it wasn't the Sabbath I'd
tell you wot I think of you."

"I'm goin' out," announced Bindle with decision.

"At this time?  You ain't goin' round to Mr. Hearty's?"  There was a
note of anxiety in Mrs. Bindle's voice.  "It's past nine o'clock."

"I ain't decided whether I'll punch 'Earty's 'ead or go an' get drunk.
I'm sick of all this 'umbug."

Whilst speaking, Bindle had seized his coat and cap, and made for the
door.  The utterance of the last word synchronised with the banging of
the door itself.

Bindle walked to the Fulham Road, where he boarded an east-bound bus.
At Beaufort Street he alighted, and a few minutes later was ringing the
bell at 550 Beaufort Mansions, the address given to him by Dick Little.
The door was opened by Little himself.

"Why, it's Aristophanes," he said with obvious pleasure.

"No, sir, Joe Bindle."

"Come in, man, whoever you are.  Come in, you're just the man we want,"
said Dick Little heartily.

At that moment there was a gust of laughter from an adjoining room.

"I'm afraid you got friends, sir," said Bindle, hesitating on the mat.
"I'll call round another night, sir.  Shouldn't like to interrupt you."

"Rot!  Come in," Little replied, dragging Bindle towards the room from
whence the laughter came.  Through the door he cried out:

"Shut up that damned row.  Here's Bindle, the immortal Bindle."

The momentary hush that Little's command had produced was followed by
yells of delight which crystallised into, "For he's a Jolly Good
Fellow!"

Bindle stood at the door listening in amazement; then with a grin
remarked to Little:

"Seem to know me, sir; seem sort o' fond of me."

"Know you, Bindle, my boy?  There's not a fellow in Tim's that doesn't
know and love you.  A toast, you fellows," he cried.

Little seized a glass half-full of whisky-and-soda.  "A toast," he
cried, "to Bindle the Incomparable, rival of Aristophanes as a maker of
mirth."

Cries of "Bindle!  Bindle!" echoed from all parts of the smoke-dimmed
room, and again there broke out what Dick Little called "the National
Anthem of Good Fellowship," followed by calls for a speech.

Before he knew it Bindle was hoisted upon the table, where he stood
gazing down upon some eight or ten flushed faces.

"Gentlemen, chair, please."  Little rapped a glass on the table.
Silence ensued.  "Now, Aristophanes," to Bindle.

"Bindle, sir, plain Joe Bindle, _if_ you please."  Then turning to the
expectant faces round him Bindle began his first speech.

"Gentlemen--leastways, I 'ope so.  You all seem to know me, and
likewise to be very fond o' me; well, p'r'aps I might become fond o'
you if I don't get to know too much about yer 'abits.  I'm sorry to
break up this 'ere prayer-meetin', but I come to 'ave a word with Mr.
Little."  (Cries of "Have it with us.")  "Very well, then," continued
Bindle.  "I got a brother-in-law, 'Earty by name."  (There were cries
of "Good old Hearty!")  "Seem to know 'im too.  P'r'aps yer sings in
the choir at 'is chapel.  Any'ow, 'Earty's been prayin' for me to-night
at 'is chapel, an' I come to arst Mr. Little wot I'd better do."

Bindle's announcement caused a sensation and something of an uproar.
His voice was drowned in cries of "Shame!"

"Just a moment, gentlemen, and I've done.  'E called me 'a brother
fallen by the wayside, a wheat-ear among thorns.'"

Yells of laughter followed this announcement, and Bindle was pulled
down and drink forced upon him.  Soon he was sitting in the most
comfortable armchair in the room, smoking a colossal cigar, with a
large kitchen jug full of beer at his elbow.  He saw before him nearly
a dozen of the most riotous spirits in London listening with eager
interest to his stories and opinions, which they punctuated with gusts
of laughter.  The night was far advanced when at length he rose to go.

"Well, gentlemen," he said, "I never thought that doctors was such
sports.  Now I understand why it is that the ladies is always gettin'
ill.  S' long, and thanks for this friendly little evenin'.  If I've
talked too much you jest come and 'ear Mrs. Bindle one evenin' and
yer'll be glad it's me and not 'er."

As Dick Little showed him out Bindle enquired:

"'Ow am I to get 'ome on that psalm-singin' brother-in-law o'
mine?--that's wot I wants to know.  Prayin' for me in chapel."  Bindle
wreaked his disgust on the match he was striking.

"I'll think it over," said Little, "and let you know.  Good-night, and
thanks for coming.  We shall always be glad to see you any Sunday
night."

"Different from 'Earty's Sunday nights," muttered Bindle, as he walked
away.  "I wonder which makes the best men.  It's a good job I ain't got
anythink to do with 'eaven, or them wheat-ears might sort o' get mixed
wi' the thorns."




CHAPTER XI

MR. HEARTY BECOMES EXTREMELY UNPOPULAR

"'Earty may be all 'ymns an' whiskers," Bindle had said, "an' I 'ate
'is 'oly look an' oily ways; but 'e sticks to his job an' works like a
blackleg.  It don't seem to give 'im no pleasure though.  'E don't
often smile, an' when 'e does it's as if 'e thought Gawd was a-goin' to
charge it up against 'im."

Mr. Hearty was an excellent tradesman; he sold nothing that he had not
bought himself, and Covent Garden knew no shrewder judge of what to buy
and what not to buy, or, as Bindle phrased it:

"'E's so used to lookin' for sin in the soul that 'e can see a rotten
apple in the middle of a barrel without knockin' the top off.  Yes,
I'll give 'Earty 'is due.  There ain't many as can knock spots off 'im
as a greengrocer, though as far as bein' a man, I seen better things
than 'im come out o' cheese."

On the Saturday morning after Bindle's visit to Dick Little, Mr. Hearty
was busily engaged in superintending the arrangement of his Fulham High
Street shop, giving an order here and a touch there, always with
excellent results.

According to his wont he had returned from market before eight o'clock,
breakfasted, hurried round to his other shop in the Wandsworth Bridge
Road, and before ten was back again at Fulham.

He was occupied in putting the finishing touches to a honey-coloured
pyramid of apples, each in its nest of pink paper like a setting hen,
when an ill-favoured man entered leading an enormous dog, in which the
salient points of the mastiff, bull-terrier, and French poodle
struggled for expression.  The man looked at a dirty piece of paper he
held in his hand.

"Name of 'Earty?" he interrogated.

"I am Mr. Hearty," was the reply, uttered in a voice that was intended
to suggest dignity with just a dash of Christian forbearance.

"I brought your dawg," said the man with ingratiating geniality, baring
three dark-brown stumps that had once been teeth; "I brought your
dawg," he repeated, looking down at what appeared to be four enormous
legs loosely attached to a long, sinuous body.

"You're mistaken," said Mr. Hearty.  "It's not mine; I don't keep a
dog."

"My mistake, guv'nor," replied the man with a grin; "I should 'a said
the dawg wot you're a-lookin' for.  'Ere, Lily, drop it."

This last remark was addressed to the dog, who, seeing Mr. Hearty's
soft black felt hat lying on a box, had seized it in her enormous jaws.
She looked up at her master and shook the hat roguishly with a gurgle
of joy; but a sharp cuff on the muzzle caused her to drop what her
teeth and saliva had already ruined.

"This is just the dawg you're wantin'," continued the man pleasantly,
indicating Lily, who had lain down and was now occupying the entire
centre of the shop, looking about her with distended jaws and a great
flap of whitey-red tongue hanging out amiably.  "Playful as a kitten,
and an 'ouse-dog as 'ud eat a burglar an' then go back to dawg-biscuit
wivout a murmur.  She's some dawg, is Lily!"

"But I don't want a dog," replied Mr. Hearty, eyeing his hat, which the
man was endeavouring to clean with his coat-sleeve.  "Will you please
take it away?"  There was a note of asperity in his voice.

"Don't want a dawg?  Don't want a dawg?"  There was menace in the man's
manner that caused Mr. Hearty some anxiety, and he looked appealingly
at Smith, his chief assistant, and the boy, who stood regarding the
episode with an enjoyment they dare not express.

"Don't want a dawg?" repeated the man for the third time.  "You jest
read this," thrusting out towards Mr. Hearty the dirty piece of paper
he held in his hand.  "You jest read this an' you'll ruddy well see
that yer do want a dawg, an' this 'ere is the dawg yer want."

Mr. Hearty mechanically took the piece of paper the man thrust towards
him.  It was a cutting of an advertisement, which read:


"DOG WANTED, breed not important, provided it is a large and good
house-dog.  Not to cost more than £4.  Apply personally with animal to
Alfred Hearty, 530 Fulham High Street, S.W., on Saturday at 10.30 a.m."


Mr. Hearty looked from the paper to Lily's owner in an uncomprehending
way and then back to the advertisement again.

"The breed ain't important in Lily," remarked the man.  "She's took
prizes as a mastiff, a French poodle, a bull-terrier, and a pom., and
she got hon'ble mention as a grey'ound once.  She'll chaw up a man she
don't like, won't yer, Lily, old gal?"

Lily looked up with a ridiculously amiable expression for a dog
possessed of such qualities.

"But I don't want a dog," repeated Mr. Hearty, looking helplessly at
Smith.

"Then wot the grumblin' 'ereafter do yer put in this advertisement
for?" growled the man angrily.

"But I didn't."

"Is your name 'Earty?"

"I am Mr. Hearty."

"Then you want a dawg, an' Lily's your dawg, an' I want four pound.
Now, 'and it over, guv'nor.  I'm in a 'urry.  I ain't a bloomin'
non-stop."

At that moment a middle-aged woman entered, followed by a very small
boy with a very large dog, as indeterminate as to pedigree as Lily
herself.  The woman looked about her and approached Smith.

"Mr. Hearty?" she almost whispered.

Smith, a man of few words, jerked his thumb in the direction of his
employer.  The woman walked over to him.  Meanwhile the new dog had
growled ominously at Lily, who, throwing out her forepaws and
depressing her head upon them, had playfully challenged it to a romp.

"Mr. Hearty?" meekly enquired the woman.

As she spoke a woman and two more men with other dogs entered the shop.
These were quickly followed by another woman of a
I
-know-what-I-want-and-'Uggins-is-my-name-an'-I've-got-me-marriage-lines
appearance.  Following her came a mild-mannered man with yet another
dog, larger and more bewildering in the matter of breed than Lily and
the other animal combined.

"I want to see Mr. 'Earty," announced the third woman to Smith.  Smith
indicated Mr. Hearty in his usual manner by a jerk of the thumb.

"I come in answer to the advertisement," she announced.

"For a dawg?" enquired Lily's owner suspiciously.

"For an 'ousekeeper," replied the woman aggressively.  "Wot's that got
to do wi' you?  You ain't Mr. 'Earty, are yer?  You jest shut yer ugly
face."

The man subsided.

The shop was now full.  Lily and the second dog had decided to be
friends, and had formed an alliance against the third dog.  In their
gambols they had already upset a basket of apples.

Whilst Mr. Hearty was endeavouring to convince Lily's owner that not
only did he not require a dog, but that as a matter of fact he had a
marked antipathy for the whole species, other animals continued to
arrive.  They grouped themselves outside with their owners, together
with a nondescript collection of men, women, and boys, with and without
dogs.  All seemed inspired with the same ambition--to interview Mr.
Hearty.

Mr. Hearty looked at the sea of faces outside as an actor suffering
from stage-fright might gaze at the audience that had bereft him of the
power to speak or move.  He felt that he must act promptly, even
sternly; but he was not a brave man and saw that he was faced by a
crowd of potential enemies.  Summoning up all his courage he turned to
Lily's owner.

"Kindly remove that dog," he ordered in what he meant to be a stern
voice, indicating Lily, who was playing a game of hide-and-seek round
an apple-barrel with a pomeranian-Irish-terrier.

"'Oo are you talkin' to?  Just answer me that," demanded Lily's owner.

Mr. Hearty saw clearly that the man intended to be awkward, even
insolent.

"I am speaking to you, and unless you take that dog away, I--I----"
Mr. Hearty stopped, wondering what he really would do.  What ought he
to do under such circumstances?

"Why did yer advertise?" demanded the aggressive woman.

"I didn't," replied Mr. Hearty miserably, turning to his new assailant.
"I have advertised for nothing."

"Didn't yer advertise for a 'ousekeeper?" continued the woman.

"No!"

"Yer a blinkin' liar."

At this uncompromising rejoinder Mr. Hearty started.  He was
unaccustomed to such directness of speech.

"Unless you are civil I shall order you out of my shop," retorted Mr.
Hearty angrily.

"An' if yer do I shan't go; see?"  The woman placed her hands on her
hips and looked at Mr. Hearty insultingly.  "Look at 'im," she
continued, addressing the crowd, "playin' 'is dirty jokes on pore
people.  I paid eightpence return to get 'ere all the way from Brixton,
then 'e says it's a joke."

There was an ominous murmur from the others.  All sorts of epithets
were hurled at Mr. Hearty.

"Will yer pay our fares?"

"I'll punch 'is bloomin' 'ead till it aches!"

"Let me get at 'im!"

"Yer dirty tyke!"

"You goin' to buy my dawg?" demanded Lily's owner, thrusting his face
so close to Mr. Hearty's that their noses almost touched.

"No, I'm not," shouted Mr. Hearty in desperation.  "Smith, put this man
and his dog out."

Smith looked embarrassed and Lily's owner laughed outright, a sneering,
insulting laugh, which his black stumps of teeth seemed to render more
sinister and menacing.

Mr. Hearty felt that the situation was passing beyond his control.  How
had it all happened and what did it mean?  Events had followed upon one
another so swiftly that he was bewildered.  Where were the police?
What did he pay rates and taxes for if he were to be subjected to this?
What would be the end of it all?  Would they kill him?

Just as he saw himself being bruised and buffeted by a furious crowd, a
shadow fell across the shop as a pantechnicon drew up outside.  It was
one of three, and from the tail-board of the last Bindle slipped off
and began forcing his way towards the shop entrance.

"Now then," he called out cheerfully, "make way there.  I'm the brother
o' the corpse.  Wot's it all about--a fire or a dog-show?"

The crowd good-humouredly made room.  Pushing his way into the shop he
hailed his brother-in-law.

"'Ullo, 'Earty; 'oldin' a levée?  What-oh!"

"'E wants a dawg," broke in the dog man, indicating Lily with a jerk of
his thumb.

"I come all the way from Brixton," shouted the would-be housekeeper.

"An' very nice, too," replied Bindle, as he pushed his way to the side
of Mr. Hearty, who was listening with anguished intentness to an eager
group of women whose one desire seemed to caretake for him.

Bindle looked round the shop with a puzzled expression, his eyes
finally resting on Lily.

"Call that a dawg?" he enquired of Lily's owner with an incredulous
grin.

"Yus, I do," replied the man aggressively.  "What 'ud you call it?  A
rosy kitten?"

"Well," remarked Bindle imperturbably, regarding Lily critically,
"since you arsts me, I'd call it a bloomin' 'istory o' dawgs in one
volume."

"Where'll yer 'ave the coal, guv'nor?" bawled a voice from the fringe
of the crowd.

At that moment Mrs. Hearty entered from the parlour behind the shop.
She gazed about her in mild wonderment.

"We don't want any coals, Alf.  We had them in last week."  Mrs. Hearty
subsided into a chair.  Suddenly her eyes fell upon Lily, who was
trying to shake off her head Mr. Hearty's hat, which someone had placed
there, and she collapsed, helpless with laughter.

"'Ere, get out of it," cried Bindle, giving Lily a cuff, whereat she
yelped dismally.  Providence had evidently intended her for doughty
deeds, having endowed her with the frame of an Amazon, but had then
lost interest and given her the heart of a craven.

By dint of threats, badinage, and persuasion Bindle at last cleared the
shop of all save Mr. and Mrs. Hearty, Smith, and the boy.  Posting the
staff at the door with instructions to admit no one, Bindle approached
his brother-in-law.

"Wot jer been doin', 'Earty?  The 'ole bloomin' street's full o' carts
and people wantin' to see yer.  I brought three vans.  What's it all
about?"

Never had Mr. Hearty been so genuinely pleased to see Bindle.  Before
he had time to reply to his question, a big man pushed his way past
Smith and entered the shop.

"Where'll yer 'ave the beer, guv'nor?" he shouted in a thick, hearty
voice redolent of the Trade.

"'Ere, come out of the way," shouted a small wiry man who had followed
him in.  "All this little lot goin'?" he asked, nodding in the
direction of the crowd that blocked the street.  "I only got three
brakes, an' they won't take 'em all."

"What's _your_ little game?" Bindle enquired of the newcomer.

The brakeman eyed him with scornful contempt.

"You Mr. 'Earty?" he enquired.

"I'm 'is brother; 'e's been took ill.  There's a mistake.  You better
get 'ome."

"Get 'ome!" shouted the man.  "'Oo's goin' to pay?"

"Try Lloyd George!" suggested Bindle cheerfully.

A policeman pushed his way into the shop and Bindle slipped out.  The
real drama was being enacted outside.  From all directions a steady
stream of people was pouring towards Mr. Hearty's shop.

"'Earty, 'Earty," murmured Bindle joyously to himself, as he surveyed
the High Street, "wot 'ave yer been an' done?"

The place presented an extraordinary appearance.

There were coal-carts, strings of them, brewers'-drays, laundry-carts,
railway-vans, huge two-horse affairs, pantechnicons, char-a-bancs,
large carts, small carts, and medium-sized carts.  There were vehicles
with one, two, and three horses.  There were motor-cars, motor-vans,
motor-lorries, and motor-cycles.  There were donkey-carts,
spring-carts, push-carts, and pull-carts.  Everything capable of
delivering goods was represented, and all were locked together in a
hopelessly congested mass.

Everything had come to a standstill and the trams strove in vain to
clang their way through the inextricable tangle.

The footpaths were crowded with men, women, boys, and dogs, all
endeavouring to reach Mr. Hearty's shop, the Mecca of their pilgrimage.
Crowds overflowed the paths into the roadway and seemed to cement
together the traffic.

Bindle passed along the line intent on gleaning all the information he
could.

"'Ave yer come after the job o' 'ousekeeper, nurse, or dawg?" he asked
one seedy-looking man with an alarming growth of nose.

"'Ow about my railway fare?"' enquired Lily's owner, recognising
Bindle.  "'Oo's goin' to pay it?"

"You're a-goin' to pay it yerself, ole sport, unless you're goin' to
walk."  Then eyeing the man critically he added, "A little exercise
might ease yer figure a bit."

Bindle pushed among the throng of disappointed applicants for
employment and deliverers of goods.  Fate had been kind to him in
sending him this glorious jest.

"Might 'a been foundin' a colony," he muttered, as he passed from group
to group; "'e ain't forgot nothink: plumbers, bricklayers, vans,
'ousekeepers, dawgs, kids to adopt, 'orses, carpenters, caretakers,
shovers; an' 'e's ordered everythink what ever growed or was made,
_includin'_ beer, enough to keep the Guards drunk for a year.  'Earty's
mad, pore chap.  Religion do take some that way."

At first Bindle had been puzzled to account for the throngs of
applicants; but enquiry made things very clear.  In every case the
advertisements--and they had appeared in every daily and innumerable
weekly papers--stated the wages, which were unusually high.  A vanman
was offered fifty shillings a week, a housekeeper thirty shillings a
week all found; for an errand-boy fifteen shillings a week was
suggested, and ten pounds as a bonus to the parents of the child that
was to be adopted.

The officials at Putney Bridge station were puzzled to account for the
extraordinary increase in the westward-bound traffic on that Saturday
morning; but what particularly surprised them was the stream of dogs
that each train seemed to pour forth.

The run upon dog-tickets at certain East-end stations broke all
records, and three stationmasters had to telephone to headquarters for
a further supply.

Dogs occupied the gangways of every train arriving at Putney Bridge
station between 10 a.m. and 10.40 a.m.  Dogs growled, fawned, and
quarrelled.

The stream of dogs, however, was as nothing to the stream of men, women
and boys, and small children for adoption.  The station officials and
the bus-men outside wearied of instructing people how to get to Fulham
High Street.

The congestion of traffic in Fulham High Street was felt as far east as
Piccadilly and the Strand, where the police on point duty were at a
loss to account for it.  The disorganisation in the tram service was in
evidence equally at Wood Green and Wandsworth.

Certain elements in the crowd, notably the younger and more
light-hearted sections, in particular those who lived in the
neighbourhood and were not out of pocket for railway fares, were
inclined to regard the whole affair as a huge joke, and badinage flowed
freely.  There was, however, another section that thirsted for
somebody's blood, and was inclined to regard Mr. Hearty as the person
most suitable to supply this.

In the immediate vicinity of the shop-door the excitement was intense,
everyone pushing and striving to get nearer.  There was no suggestion
of personal feeling save in the case of those who were bent on the same
errand.  Thus a potential housekeeper felt nothing but friendliness for
a would-be dog-seller, whilst a hopeful housemaid was capable of
experiencing almost an affection for a mother who had a spare offspring
she was wishful of having adopted.

When the first brewers' dray drew up it was greeted with cheers, and
one man who drove up in a donkey-cart with a flashily-dressed young
woman was greeted with the inevitable:

  "Who's your lady friend?  I am surprised at you,
  It isn't the one I saw you with at 'Ampstead,"

sung by a score of robust voices.

Cries, cat-calls, and advice to those inside to "save a drop for
uncle," and "'urry up," were continuous.  Many crude jokes were
levelled at Mr. Hearty's name.

When the helmets of the police were seen bobbing their way through the
crowd there were prolonged cheers.

The first policeman to arrive, having foreseen the possibility of
trouble, had promptly telephoned for assistance.  At the time the
reinforcements arrived, including an inspector and two mounted
constables, the attitude of the crowd was beginning to assume an ugly
look.  One of the more aggressive spirits had endeavoured to single out
Mr. Hearty as a target for one of his own potatoes; but he had,
unfortunately for him, hit the policeman, whose action had been so
swift and uncompromising that there was no further attempt at disorder.

The inspector quickly saw that very little that was coherent could be
obtained from Mr. Hearty.  It was Bindle who supplied the details of
what had occurred.

"'Earty's me brother-in-law," he replied.  "'E's either gone off 'is
onion or someone's been pullin' 'is leg.  All this 'ere little lot,"
and Bindle indicated the congested High Street, "'as brought 'im things
they says 'e's ordered, and 'e says 'e ain't, an' them crowds of men,
women, and dogs and kids 'as come sayin' he wants to give 'em jobs or
'omes."

The inspector asked a few questions, and gleaned sufficient information
to convince him that this was a huge practical joke, and that prompt
action was imperative.  He telephoned for more men and set to work in
an endeavour to organise the traffic and reduce it to manageable
proportions.

Constables were placed at different points along the main thoroughfare
leading to Fulham High Street, asking all drivers and chauffeurs if
they were bound for Mr. Alfred Hearty's shop in Fulham High Street, and
if so sending them back.  Men were stationed at Hammersmith and Putney
High Street to divert the streams of traffic that still poured towards
Fulham.

Putney and Fulham had never seen anything like it.  Families went
dinnerless because housewives either could not get to the shops, or
could not get away from them again.  Telephones rang, and irate
housekeepers enquired when the materials for lunch were coming.
Taxicab drivers with fares sat stolidly at the wheel, conscious that
their income was increasing automatically, whilst the fares themselves
fumed and fussed as they saw their twopences vanish.

It was not until past one o'clock that the trams restarted, and it was
2.30 before Bindle got back to the yard with his three pantechnicons.

"Poor ole 'Earty's got it in the neck this time," he muttered as he
turned back towards Fulham High Street to lend a hand in putting things
straight.  Mr. Hearty was distracted at the thought that none of his
customers had received their fruit and vegetables, and Bindle was
genuinely sorry for him.  All that afternoon and late into the night he
worked, helping to weigh up and deliver orders; and when he eventually
left the shop at a few minutes before midnight, he was "as tired as a
performin' flea."

"I like 'Earty when 'e goes mad," he muttered to himself as he left the
shop.  "It sort o' wakes up sleepy old Fulham.  I wonder 'oo it was.
Shouldn't be surprised if I could spot 'im.  If it ain't Mr. Dick
Little call me Jack Johnson.  I wish 'e 'adn't done it, though."

Bindle was thinking of the pathetic figure Mr. Hearty had cut, and of
the feverish manner in which he had worked to make up for the lost
hours, Bindle had been genuinely touched when, as he was about to leave
the shop, his brother-in-law had shaken him warmly by the hand and, in
an unsteady voice, thanked him for his help.  Then looking round as if
searching for something, he had suddenly seized the largest pineapple
from the brass rail in the window, thrust it upon the astonished
Bindle, and fled into the back room.

For some seconds Bindle had stood looking from the fruit to the door
through which his brother-in-law had disappeared, then, replacing it on
the rack, he had quietly left the shop, muttering: "It takes a long
time to get to know even yer own relations.  Queer ole card, 'Earty."




CHAPTER XII

BINDLE AGREES TO BECOME A MILLIONAIRE


I

As the intervals between Mr. Hearty's invitations for Sunday evenings
lengthened, Bindle became a more frequent visitor at Dick Little's
flat, where he could always be sure of finding jovial kindred spirits.

Both Mrs. Hearty and Millie missed Bindle, and broadly hinted the fact
to Mr. Hearty; but he enjoyed too well his Sunday evening hymns to
sacrifice them on the altar of hospitality.  Millie in particular
resented the change.  She disliked intensely the hymn-singing, and she
was greatly attached to "Uncle Joe."

At Dick Little's flat Bindle found ample compensation for the loss of
Mr. Hearty's very uncordial hospitality.

"Mrs. Bindle ain't at 'er best Sunday evenin's," he had confided to
Dick Little.  "'Er soul seems to sort of itch a bit an' 'er not able to
scratch it."

He was always assured of a welcome at Chelsea, and the shout that
invariably greeted his entrance flattered him.

"Different from ole 'Earty's 'Good-evenin', Joseph,'" he would remark.
"I'd like 'Earty to meet this little lot."

One Sunday evening, about nine o'clock, Bindle made his way round to
the flat, and found Dick Little alone with his brother Tom, who was
spending the week-end in town.  Bindle had not previously met Tom
Little, who, however, greeted him warmly as an old friend.

"P'r'aps I'd better be goin'," suggested Bindle tentatively, "seein' as
you're----"

"Not a bit of it," broke in Dick Little; "sit down, mix yourself a
drink; there are the cigars."

Bindle did as he was bid.

"We were talking about Gravy when you came in," remarked Tom Little.

"An' very nice too, with a cut from the joint an' two vegs.," remarked
Bindle pleasantly.

Dick Little explained that "Gravy" was the nickname by which Mr.
Reginald Graves was known to his fellow-undergraduates.  "We're about
fed up with him at Joe's," Tom Little added.

"An' 'oo might Joe be, sir, when 'e's at 'ome, an' properly labelled?"
enquired Bindle.

"It's St. Joseph's College, Oxford, where my brother is," explained
Dick Little.

In the course of the next half-hour Bindle learned a great deal about
Mr. Reginald Graves, who had reached Oxford by means of scholarship,
and considered that he had suffered loss of caste in consequence.  His
one object in life was to undo the mischief wrought by circumstances.
He could not boast of a long line of ancestry; in fact, on one occasion
when in a reminiscent mood he had remarked:

"I had a grandfather----"

"Had you?" was the scathing comment of another man.  The story had been
retailed with great gusto among the men of St. Joseph's.

Reginald Graves was a snob, which prompted him to believe that all men
were snobs.  _Burke's Peerage_ and _Kelly's Landed Gentry_ were at once
his inspiration and his cross.  He used them constantly himself,
looking up the ancestry of every man he met.  He was convinced that his
lack of "family" was responsible for his unpopularity.

In his opinion, failing "blood" the next best thing to possess was
money, and he lost no opportunity of throwing out dark and covert hints
as to the enormous wealth possessed by the Graves and Williams
families, Williams being his mother's maiden name.

His favourite boast, however, was of an uncle in Australia.  Josiah
Williams had, according to Graves, emigrated many years before.
Fortune dogged his footsteps with almost embarrassing persistence
until, at the time that his nephew Reginald went up to Oxford, he was a
man of almost incredible wealth.  He owned mines that produced fabulous
riches, and runs where the sheep were innumerable.

Graves was purposely vague as to the exact location of his uncle's
sheep-stations, and on one occasion he spent an unhappy evening
undergoing cross-examination by an Australian Rhodes scholar.  However,
he persisted in his story, and Australia was a long way off, and it was
very unlikely that anyone would be sufficiently interested to unearth
and identify all its millionaires in order to prove that Josiah
Williams and his millions existed only in the imagination of his
alleged nephew.

Graves was a thin, pale-faced young man with nondescript features and
an incipient moustache.  Furthermore, he had what is known as a narrow
dental arch, which gave to his face a peevish expression.  When he
smiled he bared two large front teeth that made him resemble a rabbit.
His hair was as colourless as his personality.  He was entirely devoid
of imagination, or, as Tom Little phrased it, "What he lacked in divine
fire, he made up for in damned cheek."

He led a solitary life.  When his fellow undergraduates deigned to call
upon him it was invariably for the purpose of a "rag."

Trade was the iron that had entered his soul; he could never forget
that his father was a grocer and provision merchant in a midland town.
His one stroke of good luck, that is as he regarded it, was that no one
at St. Joseph's was aware of the fact.  Had he possessed the least idea
that the story of his forebears was well known at St. Joseph's it would
have been to him an intolerable humiliation.

Subservient, almost fawning with his betters, he was overbearing and
insulting to his equals and inferiors: since his arrival at St.
Joseph's his "scout" had developed a pronounced profanity.  Rumour had
it that Graves was not even above the anonymous letter; but there was
no definite evidence that those received by certain men at St. Joseph's
found their inspiration in the brain of Reginald Graves.

Nothing would have happened, beyond increased unpopularity for Graves,
had it not been for an episode out of which Graves had come with
anything but flying colours, and which had procured for him a thrashing
as anonymous as the letters he was suspected of writing.

He was a favourite with Dr. Peter, the Master of St. Joseph's, and
this, coupled with the fact that the Master was always extremely
well-informed as to the things that the undergraduates would have
preferred he should not know, aroused suspicion.

One day Travers asked Graves to dinner, and over a bottle of wine
confided to him the entirely fictitious information that he was mixed
up in a divorce case that would make the whole of Oxford "sit up."
Next day he was sent for by Dr. Peter, who had heard "a most disturbing
rumour," etc.  Travers had taken the precaution of confiding in no one
as to his intentions.  Thus the source of Dr. Peter's information was
obvious.

The men of St. Joseph's were normal men, broad of mind and brawny of
muscle; they had, however, their code, and it was this code that Graves
had violated.  Tom Little had expressed the general view of the college
when he said that Graves ought to be soundly kicked and sent down.

"Now, Bindle," remarked Dick Little, "you're a man of ideas: what's to
be done with Gravy?"

"Well, sir, that depends on exes.  It costs money to do most things in
this world, and it'll cost money to make Mr. Gravy stew in his own
juice."

"How much?"

"Might cost"--Bindle paused to think--"might cost a matter of twenty or
thirty quid to do it in style."

"Right-oh!  Out with it, my merry Bindle," cried Tom Little.  "Travers
and Guggers alone would pay up for a good rag, but it must be top-hole,
mind."

"Yes," said Bindle, with a grin; "it 'ud be top-'ole right enough."
And Bindle's grin expanded.

"Out with it, man," cried Dick Little.  "Don't you see we're aching to
hear?"

"Well," said Bindle, "if the exes was all right I might sort o' go down
an' see 'ow my nephew, Mr. Gravy, was gettin' on at----"

With a whoop of delight Tom Little sprang up, seized Bindle round the
waist, and waltzed him round the room, upsetting three chairs and a
small table, and finally depositing him breathless in his chair.

"You're a genius, O Bindle!  Dick, we're out of it with the
incomparable Bindle."

Dick Little leaned back in his easy chair and gazed admiringly at
Bindle, as he pulled with obvious enjoyment at his cigar.

"Course I never been a millionaire, but I dessay I'd get through
without disgracin' meself.  The only thing that 'ud worry me 'ud be
'avin' about 'alf a gross o' knives an' forks for every meal, an' a
dozen glasses.  But I'm open to consider anythink that's goin'."

"The only drawback," remarked Little, "would be the absence of the
millions."

"That would sort o' be a obstacle," admitted Bindle.

After a pause Dick Little continued, "If you were to have your expenses
paid, with a new rig-out and, say, five pounds for yourself, do you
think that for three or four days you could manage to be a millionaire?"

"Don't you worry," was Bindle's response.

"What about the real Josiah Williams?" Dick Little had enquired.

"All fudge, at least the millions are," his brother replied.  "The
unspeakable Reggie could not repudiate the relationship without giving
the whole show away.  It's immense!"  He mixed himself another
whisky-and-soda.  "I'll talk it over with Travers and Guggers and wire
you on Wednesday.  Good-bye, Bindle."  And he was gone.

That night Bindle stayed late at Little's flat, and talked long and
earnestly.  As he came away he remarked:

"Of course you'll remember, sir, that millionaires is rather inclined
to be a bit dressy, and I'd like to do the thing properly.  Maybe, with
some paper inside, I might even be able to wear a top 'at."


II

One Tuesday afternoon, when Reginald Graves entered his rooms, he found
awaiting him a copy of _The Oxford Mail_, evidently sent from the
office; on the outside was marked, "See page 3."

He picked up the packet, examined it carefully, and replaced it upon
the table.  He was in all things studied, having conceived the idea
that to simulate a species of superior boredom was to evidence
good-breeding.  Although alone, he would not allow any unseemly haste
to suggest curiosity.  Having removed his hat and coat and donned a
smoking-jacket and Turkish fez--he felt that this gave him the right
touch of undergraduate bohemianism--he picked up the paper, once more
read the address, and, with studied indifference, removed, it could not
be said that he tore off, the wrapper.  He smoothed out the paper and
turned to the page indicated, where he saw a paragraph heavily marked
in blue pencil that momentarily stripped him of his languorous
self-control.  He read and re-read it, looked round the room as if
expecting to find some explanation, and then read it again.  The
paragraph ran:


"A DISTINGUISHED VISITOR

"Australia has been brought very closely into touch with this ancient
city by the munificence of the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes and his scheme of
Scholarships, which each year brings to our colleges gifted scholars,
and to the playing-fields and boats magnificent athletes.  It is
interesting to note that we are shortly to have a visit from Mr. Josiah
Williams, the Australian millionaire and philanthropist, whose wealth
is said to be almost fabulous, and whose sheep-runs are famous
throughout the Antipodes.

"It would appear that we have often eaten of his mutton--that is, of
the sheep that he has reared to feed the Empire--and now we are to have
the privilege of welcoming him to Oxford.

"We understand that Mr. Williams is to remain in our city for only a
few days, and that his main purpose in coming is to visit his nephew
Mr. Reginald Graves, of St. Joseph's College.  Mr. Williams is, we
gather, to be entertained by his nephew's fellow-undergraduates at
Bungem's, so famous for its dinners and suppers, and it is mooted that
the Corporation may extend its hospitality to so distinguished a
citizen of the Empire.  Thus are the bonds of Empire cemented.

"It would appear that Mr. Josiah Williams has engaged a suite of rooms
at the Sceptre, where he will experience the traditional hospitality of
that ancient English hostelry.

"Mr. Williams arrives to-morrow, Wednesday, and we wish him a pleasant
stay."


Reginald Graves gasped.  It was his rule never to show emotion, and in
his more studied moments he would have characterised his present
attitude as ill-bred.

"Damn!"  It was not his wont to swear.  His pose was one of perfect
self-control.  He was as self-contained as a modern flat, and about as
small in his intellectual outlook.  He was just on the point of reading
the paragraph for the fifth time when the door of his room burst open,
admitting Tom Little, Dick Travers, and Guggers.

"Congrats., Gravy.  So the old boy's turned up," cried Little, waving a
copy of _The Oxford Mail_ in Graves's face.

"Joe's is going to do him proud," broke in Travers.  "You've seen the
_Mail_?  We'll give him the time of his life."

"Gug-gug-good egg!" broke in Guggers, so named because of his inability
to pronounce a "g" without a preliminary "gug-gug" accompanied by
inconvenient splashings.  It had become customary at St. Joseph's to
give Guggers plenty of space in front, whenever he approached a "g."
Tom Little called it "Groom."

"We're gug-gug-going to give him a gug-gug-gorgeous time."

"We'll have him drunk from morn till dewy eve," cried Tom Little, "and
extra drunk at night.  Oh, my prophetic soul!"

"Gravy, where's your sense of hospitality?" cried Travers.  Reggie
reluctantly produced whisky, a syphon, and some glasses.

"By gug-gug-gosh!" cried Guggers, semi-vapourising the remains of a
mouthful of whisky and soda, "won't it be a rag!  Bless you,
Gug-Gug-Gravy for having an uncle."

Tom Little explained that they had been to the Sceptre and discovered
that Mr. Josiah Williams would arrive by the 3.3 train, and that St.
Joseph's was going down in a body to meet him.  Graves, of course,
would be there.

"I have heard nothing," said Graves.  "I--I don't understand.  If he
writes of course I'll go."

"You'll jolly well gug-gug-go, any old how, or we'll carry you down,"
cried Guggers in a menacing voice, looking down at Graves from his
six-foot-three of muscle and bone.

Graves looked round him helplessly.  What was he to do?  Could he
disown this uncle?  Should he explain that the whole thing was an
invention, and that he had never possessed a rich uncle in Australia?
Was it possible that by some curious trick there really was a Josiah
Williams, Australian millionaire and philanthropist?  If these men
would only go and leave him alone to think!

Then suddenly there presented itself to his mind the other question:
what would Josiah Williams be like?  Would he be hopelessly
unpresentable?  Would he humiliate him, Reginald Graves, and render his
subsequent years at St. Joseph's intolerable?  How he wished these
fellows would go!




CHAPTER XIII

OXFORD'S WELCOME TO BINDLE


I

At three o'clock on the following day the down platform at Oxford
station presented an almost gala appearance.  Not only were the men of
St. Joseph's there, but hundreds of undergraduates from other colleges,
with rattles, whistles, horns, flags, and every other attribute of
great rejoicing.

Outside the station was a carriage with four horses, a piebald, a
skewbald, a white, and another horse that seemed to have set out in
life with a determination to be pink.  Tom Little had himself selected
the animals with elaborate care.

A little distance away, standing in groups, was a band clothed
gorgeously in scarlet and gold tunics and caps, and nondescript
trousers, ranging from light grey to black.

Tom Little had given careful instructions that as soon as Josiah
Williams should emerge from the station, the band was to strike up "See
the Conquering Hero Comes," and they were to put into it all they knew.
If they produced a really good effect they were to have unlimited beer.

Reginald Graves stood in the centre of the platform, some of the
leading spirits of St. Joseph's keeping a clear space so that the
meeting between uncle and nephew might be dramatic.  A more
wretched-looking nephew of a millionaire uncle never existed.

Round him were scores of men with cameras, whom Graves instinctively
knew to be newspaper men; and perched high above the crowd occupying
important strategical positions he counted eight cinematograph cameras,
each with its attendant operator.

St. Joseph's men had been good customers to a well-known London
perruquier for false wigs, whiskers, and moustaches, with the aid of
which an unlimited supply of "newspaper" and "cinematograph-men" had
been produced.

Ignorant of all this, Graves groaned in spirit.

At four minutes past three the London train, amid a general buzz of
excitement, steamed into the station.  Pandemonium seemed to have
broken out.  Whistles shrilled, bugles blew, voices roared, and rattles
added their share to the general uproar.

The passengers in the train were at first startled, and then became
deeply interested.  From the platform hundreds of eyes searched the
opening carriage doors.  Presently there was seen to alight a small
man, dressed in a black-and-white check suit, with a pale grey homburg
hat adorned with a white puggaree, a Ted tie, patent boots, and white
spats.  Over his left arm he carried a light dust-coat, and in his hand
a gold-mounted malacca cane with a broad gold band.  In the right hand
was an enormous cigar adorned with a red-and-gold band.

It was Bindle.

"That's him," cried a hundred voices.

"Good old Josh!"

"What price wallabys?"

"Where's your lady friend?" and other irrelevant remarks were hurled
from all quarters.

The "cinematograph-men" turned their handles.  The "newspaper-men"
swarmed down upon Bindle and levelled their cameras from every possible
angle.  Graves was hastened to the spot where Bindle was endeavouring
to avoid looking into the barrel of a huge "camera."

Men hit him on the back, poked him in the ribs, shouted their welcomes
and generally cheer-oh'd him.

After a desperate effort Tom Little fought his way through the crowd,
followed by Travers and Guggers dragging the reluctant Graves.
Suddenly Tom Little jumped up on Guggers' back.

"Mr. Josiah Williams, we welcome you to Oxford, we, the men of St.
Joseph's."

Bindle looked at the laughing faces and remarked, "And very nice, too.
Cheer-oh the lot!"

"This," continued Tom Little, when a space had been cleared, largely
due to Guggers' magnificent tackling, "this is your distinguished
nephew, Reginald Graves, whom to know is to love."

The unhappy Graves was dragged forward.  Bindle extended two fingers of
his left hand.

"So you're Polly's boy?"

Graves started.  His mother's name had been Mary Williams, and his
father had always called her Polly.  Was he dreaming, or could it be
possible that it was all true, and that fame and fortune were before
him?  A brother of his mother's had gone to Australia when quite a
little lad.  He was roused from his reverie by somebody shouting:

"Say how-d'ye-do to uncle," and he found himself clasping Bindle's two
fingers with a warmth that surprised himself.

He looked round him.  There was a dense crowd waving flags, and all in
honour of this man who greeted him as nephew.  A new prospect opened
itself to his bewildered brain.  If only it prove to be true!

"Now, come along, Mr. Williams."  It was Tom Little's voice again that
broke in upon his thoughts.  "We've got a carriage waiting for you."

Travers had slipped out and found the band split up into three groups.
He went up to each in turn; the first two he reminded that they were
playing "See the Conquering Hero Comes," and the third group he told
that the clash of welcome had been changed to "Auld Lang Syne."  They
must start at once, as Mr. Williams was just leaving the station.
Urged by Travers the band formed up with incredible speed.  Just then
Bindle emerged, with Tom Little on one side and Guggers on the other.
He was saying to Guggers:

"Look 'ere, young feller, if you can't talk without spittin' in my ear,
you just dry up."

At that second the band broke out, every man doing his utmost.
Everyone looked a little surprised, for the two melodies combined
badly.  The drummer was the first to discover that something was wrong.
Recognising that the instruments round him were playing "Auld Lang
Syne" he changed the time of his thumps.  Then hearing the other tune,
he paused and with inspiration finished up by trying to combine the two
melodies by putting in thumps from both.

Some of the Conquering Heroes stopped and became Auld Lang Syners,
whilst several Auld Lang Syners went over to the enemy.  It was
pandemonium.

"What's up wi' the band?" enquired Bindle.  "Sounds like a Crystal
Palace competition; I 'ope nothink busts."

Still the band went on.

"Gawd Almighty! wot's that?"  Bindle's eyes dilated with something like
horror at the sight of a huge brown shape sitting on the box of the
carriage.  He stopped as if electrified.

"That," said Tom Little, "is a kangaroo.  Your national animal."

"Me national wot?" said Bindle.

"The national animal of Australia."

"Oh!" said Bindle, keeping a wary eye on the beast, whose tail hung
down into the body of the carriage.  "Well, I'm jiggered!  It looks
like a circus," he muttered.  "Look at them 'osses!" he exclaimed,
pointing with the hand that held the cigar to the steeds which had just
caught his eye.  "Look at them 'osses!"

Bindle eventually entered the carriage with Reginald Graves on his left
hand, Dick Little and Travers opposite.  Guggers had intended to sit
opposite also, but Bindle had asked in a whisper which nobody failed to
hear:

"'Ere, can't yer put that syphon somewhere else?  'E'll soak me to the
skin."

Amid cheers the procession started.  The band, which had a few minutes
before blown itself to silence, was now devoting itself
enthusiastically to "The Washington Post."  On the box the kangaroo,
known in private life as Horace Trent, the cox of the St. Joseph's
boat, performed a few innocent tricks, to the great diversion of the
crowd, whilst Bindle, drawing from his pocket a red pocket-handkerchief
with the five stars of Australia upon it, alternately waved his
acknowledgments and lifted his hat.

"I never knew young fellers like this could be so friendly," he
muttered.

Graves spent his time alternately in praying that no one might see him
and that Bindle would become less uproariously genial.

Having passed up and down every street of importance, the procession
finally made its way to the Sceptre, where Bindle alighted and was
conducted to his apartments by the bland manager.  At every turn were
to be seen obsequious and deferential servants, who had one eye on him
and the other on the day of reckoning.

A late edition of that evening's _Oxford Courier_ contained a piquant
account of the reception accorded to Mr. Josiah Williams.  It referred
to the generous if boisterous humour of the undergraduates.  It went on
to state how


"our representative called at the Sceptre, where he was so fortunate as
to catch the distinguished visitor just as he was entering.  Mr.
Williams is delighted with Oxford, his welcome, and everybody he has
met.  'They say English people are stiff and stand-offish--why, I've
had to change my collar.  Kicking kangaroos!' exclaimed Mr. Williams,
'this is some country.'

"The first thing that struck our representative about Mr. Williams was
his genial and pleasant bearing and entire absence of self-importance.
He is obviously a simple man, unspoiled by his great success."


Reginald Graves shuddered as he read this in the privacy of his own
rooms, remembering Bindle's accent and deportment.


"Although he would neither confess nor deny it, we understand that Mr.
Williams is in England in connection with certain philanthropic
schemes.  We congratulate Mr. Reginald Graves on possessing as an uncle
Mr. Josiah Williams, and Oxford on possessing Mr. Reginald Graves, if
only for a short time."


II

"So you're Polly's boy."  Bindle was receiving in his sitting-room at
the Sceptre, surrounded by the leading spirits of St. Joseph's,
including the kangaroo, which was clutching a large glass of
shandygaff.  In the public bar below the band was busy realising what
hitherto had been little more than an ambition, and about "the High"
the remains of the crowd lingered.

"Reginald's your name, ain't it?" Bindle continued.  "Reg will do for
me.  Mother livin'?  'Ow's yer father?  Still in the grocery business?"

Graves burst into an assurance that they were quite well, then added
that his mother was dead.

"Poor ole Poll," murmured Bindle, looking anything but doleful, and
hiding a grin in the huge tankard that he raised to his lips.  "She was
a rare ole sport.  Never met yer father.  Quaint ole bird, ain't 'e?"

Mr. Graves was thankful when the conversation took a less domestic
turn.  That afternoon he felt that the eyes of all Oxford were upon
him, and deep down in his soul he cursed St. Joseph, the college, and
every man therein.

Worse was in store for Graves.  When he returned to his rooms a message
was brought by his "scout" that the Master would like to see him.  In
an agony of apprehension he made his way to the Master's study.  He was
relieved at the cordiality of his reception.

"I understand that your uncle has arrived, Graves?  I shall be very
pleased to make his acquaintance.  Perhaps you will bring him to
luncheon to-morrow."

Even Reginald Graves's self-repression could not disguise his agony of
mind.  He saw the luncheon-table, Dr. Peter playing the conventionally
cordial host, and Mrs. Peter, with her frigid mid-Victorian austerity,
endeavouring to pose as a great lady.

Was fate conspiring against him?  There was the supper that evening at
Bungem's, which he knew would be a torture, and the martyrdom of the
morrow.  Human flesh was too frail to withstand it!

He found himself again saying that he should be delighted; at least, he
assumed that was what he said.  Dr. Peter seemed satisfied.  Just as he
was taking his leave he remarked:

"Were you responsible for this ill-conceived demonstration to-day at
the station?"

"No, sir, most certainly not," replied Graves, in a voice that carried
conviction.

"Very deplorable, most deplorable.  It will probably give Mr. Williams
a very bad impression of English culture.  I shall look into the
matter, and find out who was guilty of this most unseemly exhibition.
I am glad to hear that you are not in any way implicated, Graves.  Most
deplorable, most."

With a murmur of thanks Graves left the Master's study, praying that
Dr. Peter might visit his wrath upon those responsible for what had
caused him so much anguish and suffering.


III

Oxford without Bungem's would not be Oxford.  "St. Bungem the
Hospitable" was known throughout the Empire.  His fame reached from
east to west and north to south.  Up the staircase leading to the
famous dining-hall many illustrious men, as yet unillustrious, had
passed with firm and confident step.  On the walls were innumerable
flashlight photographs of famous suppers, suppers that had reduced
potential judges and incipient statesmen to helpless imbecility.  Prime
ministers-to-be, generals of the future, and admirals of the next
generation had lost their bearings and their equilibrium as a result of
the good fare, liquid fare, that is, dispensed by the immortal Bungem.

Colonial governors, viceroys, and archbishops could have recalled
uproarious nights spent beneath the hospitable roof of Bungem's, had
their memories not been subject to severe censorship.

Framed above the head of the table was the quatrain, written by a
future Poet Laureate, that was the pride of Bungem's heart:

  "Take from me all I have: my friends,
  My songs, for no one's ever sung 'em;
  One crowded hour of glorious life
  I crave, but let it be with Bungem."


Never had Bungem's presented so gay and glorious an appearance as on
the Wednesday evening of the famous supper to Josiah Williams.

Applications for tickets had poured in upon the Dinner Committee
hastily organised by the men of St. Joseph's.  Many ideas, in which
originality and insanity were happily blended, had been offered to the
Committee.  One man had even suggested that the waiters should be
dressed as kangaroos; but the idea had been discarded owing to the
difficulty of jumping with plates of soup.  Another suggestion had been
that nothing but Mr. Williams's mutton should be eaten, whilst a third
had proposed a bushman's menu.  An Australian Rhodes man had, however,
with great gravity of countenance, assured the Committee that the
Bushmen were cannibals, and the project had been abandoned.

The banquet was limited to two hundred covers, and the applications had
exceeded twice that number.  Preference was given to men of St.
Joseph's, and after that to the Australian Rhodes scholars, who had
kindly undertaken during the course of the evening to reproduce the
battle-cry of the Bushmen.

One Rhodes scholar, more serious than the rest, suggested that the
Bushmen had no battle-cry; but he was promptly told that they would
possess one after that evening.

Tom Little had taken upon himself the guarding of Reginald Graves, as a
suspicion had flitted through the minds of the organisers of the feast
that he might fail them at the last moment.  As a matter of fact he did
venture a remark that he felt very ill, and would go to bed.  That was
during the afternoon.  But the Committee of Management had made it
clear that he was to be at the dinner, and that if he went to bed he
would probably be there in pyjamas.

The Committee called for Mr. Josiah Williams at the Sceptre at 8.30,
formally to escort him to Bungem's.  They discovered Bindle in the
happiest of moods and full evening-dress.  In his shirt-front blazed
the "Moonagoona star, the second finest diamond that Australia had ever
produced."  On his head was an opera hat, and over his arm a light
overcoat.  The party walked over to Bungem's, passing through a
considerable crowd that had collected outside the Sceptre.

At Bungem's the guests lined up on each side from the pavement up the
stairs into the reception-room, and as the guest of honour arrived
arm-in-arm with Tom Little they broke out into "For He's a Jolly Good
Fellow," led by an impromptu band consisting of a concertina, three
mouth-organs, six whistles, eighteen combs, and a tea-tray.

Dick Little, who had arrived by a later train than that carrying
Bindle, was in the chair.  He was an old St. Joseph's man and his
memory was still green, although he had gone down some years
previously.  On his right sat Bindle, the guest of the evening; next to
him were Reginald Graves and Guggers.

When all the guests were seated the chairman's mallet called for order.

"Gentlemen, you are too graceless a crew for grace, but you understand
the laws of hospitality, that much I grant you.  It is our object to
make our distinguished visitor, Mr. Josiah Williams of Moonagoona,
thoroughly welcome and at home, and to remind him of the sylvan glades
of Moonagoona."  Then, turning to Bindle, "Am I right, sir, in assuming
that Moonagoona has sylvan glades?"

"'It it first time," replied Bindle.  "Mooniest place I was ever in.
It used to be called Moonaspoona till the birth-rate dropped."  This
remark was greeted with a roar of approval.

"We will open the proceedings with a representation of the Australian
Bushmen's war-cry, kindly contributed by certain Rhodes scholars and
others from the Antipodes."

The war-cry was not a success, but the meal that followed savoured of
the palmiest days of Bungem's.  The food was plentiful and excellently
cooked; the wine more plentiful and generously served.

Bindle's greatest concern was his white shirt-front.  He had tucked his
napkin in his collar, but that did not reassure him, because he then
became alarmed lest the napkin should be soiled.  However, he watched
very carefully the careless, well-bred eating of Little and the
finicking deportment of Graves, and managed to strike the middle
course.  It is true he absorbed his soup with sibilance and from the
point of the spoon; but apart from that he acquitted himself
excellently until the arrival of the asparagus.  When the waiter
presented it Bindle eyed the long, slender stems suspiciously.  Then he
looked at the waiter and back again at the stems and shook his head.

"Nonsense!" said Dick Little; "nobody ever refuses asparagus at
Bungem's."

_Asperge à la Bungem_ is a dish the memory of which every Oxford man
cherishes to the end of his days.

Bindle weakened, and helped himself liberally, a circumstance which he
soon regretted.

"How do I eat it?" he enquired of Dick Little in an anxious whisper.

"Watch me," replied Little.

The asparagus was tired and refused to preserve an erect position.
Each stem seemed desirous of forming itself into an inverted "U."
Little selected a particularly wilted stem and threw his head well back
in the position of a man about to be shaved, and lowered the asparagus
slowly into his mouth.

Nobody took any particular notice of this, and Little had been very
careful to take only two or three stems.  To the horror of Graves,
Bindle followed Dick Little's lead.

"Funny sort o' stuff, Reggie, ain't it?" said Bindle, resuming an
upright position in order to select another stick.  "Seems as if yer
'ad to 'ave somebody rubbin' yer while it goes down."

Never in the history of Bungem's had the famous asparagus been so
neglected.  Everybody was watching alternately Bindle and Graves.
Bindle was enjoying himself; but on the face of Graves was painted an
anguish so poignant that more than one man present pitied him his
ordeal.

Dick Little's mallet fell with a thump, and the attention of the guests
became diverted from Graves to the chairman, amidst cries of "Chair,"
"Order," "Shame," and "Chuck him out."

"Gentlemen--a mere euphemism, I confess," began Dick Little; "men of
St. Joseph's never propose the toast of the King; that is a toast that
we all drink silently and without reminder.  The toast of the evening
is naturally that of the health and happiness of the guest of the
evening, Mr. Josiah Williams of Moonagoona--a man, need I say more?"

There were loud cheers, in which Bindle joined.

In proposing the toast of the evening, Dick Little dwelt upon the
distinction conferred upon Oxford in general and St. Joseph's in
particular by Reginald Graves in selecting it from out of the myriad
other universities and colleges.  He touched lightly upon the love
Graves had inspired in the hearts of his contemporaries; but never
greater than when he had generously decided to share with them his
uncle.

"This uncle," he continued, "has raised mutton and a nephew, and it is
difficult to decide which of the two the men of St. Joseph's love the
more: Josiah's mutton, or Josiah's nephew.

"Gentlemen, fellow-wanderers along the paths of knowledge, I give you
the toast, Mr. Josiah Williams of Moonagoona, and with that toast I
crave your permission to associate all his bleating sheep."

The whole assembly sprang to its feet, cheering wildly, among the
others Bindle, who drank his own health with gusto and enthusiasm.

The shouts that greeted Bindle when he rose to respond to the toast
created a record even for Bungem's.  Bindle gazed round him
imperturbably, as if the making of a speech were to him an everyday
matter.

In his right hand he held a cigar, and three fingers of his left hand
rested lightly upon the edge of the table.  When the din had subsided
he began.

"Gentlemen, I never knew 'ow fortunate I was until now.  I been raisin'
sheep and 'ell in Moonagoona for years, forgettin' all about this 'ere
little cherub," Bindle indicated Graves with a wave of his hand, "and
all the jolly times I might 'ave 'ad through 'im.  Moonagoona ain't
exactly a paradise, it's too 'ot for that; still, if any of yer ever
manages to find yer way there you'll be lucky, and you'll be luckier
still if yer finds yours truly there at the same time.  No; I done
raisin' 'ell an' mutton, bein' too old for one an' too tired for the
other.

"When I decided to 'ave a nephew I prayed 'ard for a good 'un, an' they
sent me this little chap."  Bindle patted Reggie's head affectionately
amidst resounding cheers.  "'E ain't much to look at," continued
Bindle, with a grin, "'e ain't the beauty 'is uncle was at 'is age;
still, 'e seems to 'ave a rare lot o' pals."

More eyes were watching Graves than Bindle.  His face was very white
and set, and he strove to smile; but it was a sickly effort.  His
immediate neighbours noticed that his glass, which those around him
were careful to keep filled, was raised frequently to his lips.  From
time to time he looked round him like a hunted animal who seeks but
fails to find some avenue of escape.

"'E was always a good boy to 'is mother, my sister Polly, an' now 'e's
a gentleman, 'im wot once took round oil an' sausages for 'is father
when 'e kep' a general shop.

"Everyone," proceeded Bindle, referring to a scrap of paper he held,
"'as heard o' Tom Graves, grocer, of 60 'Igh Street, Bingley.  'E don't
mix sand with 'is sugar and sell it at threepence a pound, not 'im; 'e
mixes it wi' the tea at one-an'-eight a pound.  There ain't no flies on
old Tom.

"'Is mother, when she was in service, 'fore she married Tom, 'ad a face
almost as pretty as Reggie's."  Bindle placed his hand beneath Graves's
chin and elevated his flushed face and gazed down into his nephew's
watery eyes.

Graves half rose from his seat, an ugly look on his face, but someone
dragged him down again.  He looked round the room with unseeing eyes,
making vain endeavours to moisten his lips.  Once or twice he seemed
determined to get up and go, but Guggers' brawny arm was always there
to restrain him.  There was nothing for it but to sit and listen.

"Now, gentlemen," continued Bindle, "I mustn't keep yer."  (There were
loud cries of "Go on," "The night is young," and similar
encouragements.)  "Although," continued Bindle, "I could tell yer
things yer might like to know about 'orses, beer, women, an' other
things wot 'urt."  (Loud cries of "No!")  "Well, wait till you're
married, then yer'll see.  As I was sayin', this is an 'appy evenin'.

"Lord, I seen things in Moonagoona," continued Bindle reminiscently,
"that 'ud make yer 'air stand on end.  There's the Moonagoona linnet,
big as an eagle, and you 'ave to plug yer ears when it sings.  Then
there's the Moonagoona beetle, wot'll swallow a lamb 'ole, an' then sit
up an' beg for the mint-sauce.

"We got eels that big that yer wouldn't believe it.  We once caught a
eel at Moonagoona, and it pulled an' pulled so, that 'fore long we'd
got the 'ole bloomin' population on the end o' the rope.  We 'auled in
miles of it, an' presently we see comin' along the river a crowd o'
people; they was the in'abitants of Gumbacooe, the next town.  They'd
caught the other end o' the eel, wot 'ad two 'eads, an' we was
a-'aulin' of 'em as well as Mister Eel.  Moonagoona's the place to see
things.

"I been very 'appy this evenin'," proceeded Bindle, "so's Reggie.  No
one would know yer was gents, yer behave so nicely."  Bindle grinned
broadly as he raised his glass.  "Well, 'ere's to us, mates," he cried.

With a roar the company once more sprang to its feet and, assisted by
bells, rattles, whistles, a tray, a phonograph which played "You Made
Me Love You," combs and mouth-organs, sang in various keys, "For He's a
Jolly Good Fellow."

Bindle was at that moment the most popular man in Oxford.  He was one
of the greatest successes that Bungem's had ever known.  He was hoisted
on brawny shoulders and borne in triumph round the room.  In his hand
he held a finger-bowl full of champagne, the contents of which slopped
over the heads and persons of his bearers at every step.

"If only 'Earty could see me now," he murmured happily.  "These chaps
'ud make a man of 'Earty 'fore 'e knew it.  Leggo my leg!" he yelled
suddenly, as one enthusiast seized his right leg and strove to divert
the procession from its course.  "You funny 'Uggins, you!  Think I'm
made o' rubber?  Leggo!"

Too excited for mere words to penetrate to his brain, the youth
continued to pull, and Bindle poured the rest of the champagne over his
upturned face.  With a yelp the youth released Bindle's leg.

In the excitement that followed Bindle's speech Graves saw his
opportunity.  Guggers' eye was momentarily off him and he slipped
towards the door unnoticed.  He had almost reached safety when Bindle,
who was the first to observe the manoeuvre, uttered a yell.

"Stop 'im! stop 'im!  'Ere, let me down," he shouted, and by pounding
on the head of one of his bearers with the finger-bowl and with a kick
that found the stomach of another, he disengaged himself.

Bindle's cry had attracted general attention to Graves, but too late to
stop him.  With a bound he reached the door and tore down the stairs.

"After him, you chaps," cried Guggers, and with yells and cries ranging
from "Tally-ho!" to the "Bushmen's war-cry" the whole company streamed
out of Bungem's and tore down "the High" in hot pursuit.

That night those who were late out beheld the strange sight of a
white-faced man in evening-dress running apparently for his life,
pursued by a pack of some two hundred other men similarly garbed and
uttering the most horrible shouts and threats.  Windows were thrown up
and heads thrust out, and all wondered what could be the meaning of
what the oldest, and consequently longest-suffering, townsman
subsequently described as defying even his recollection.

Late that night the porter at St. Joseph's was aroused by a furious
ringing of the bell, accompanied by a tremendous pounding at the door.
On the doorstep he found, to his astonishment, the dishevelled figure
of Graves, sobbing for breath and sanctuary, and with terror in his
eyes.  In the distance he heard a terrible outcry, which next morning
he was told was the Australian Bushmen's war-cry.


IV

Bindle was awakened next morning by a continuous hammering at his
bedroom door.

"Who the 'oppin' robin are yer?" he shouted; "shut up and go 'ome."

The door burst open, and Tom Little, Guggers, and Travers entered.

"Up you gug-gug-get," cried Guggers.  "You must catch the 11.6."

"Look 'ere, ole Spit and Speak, if you're wantin' to get 'urt you're on
the right road."  Bindle grinned up at Guggers impudently.  "I'm as
tired as yer mother must be o' you."

"Up you get, you merry wight," cried Tom Little, laughing; "there's the
devil to pay."

"There always is, exceptin' sometimes it's a woman," remarked Bindle,
yawning.  "Devils are cheaper, on the 'ole.  What's the trouble?"

"The Master has invited you to lunch," broke in Travers, "and that ass
Gravy never told us."

"You must be recalled to town," said Tom Little, "or we shall all be
sent down.  Now up you get."

Bindle climbed out of bed resplendent in pyjamas with alternate broad
stripes of pale blue and white.

"'Oo's the Master?  I'll lunch with anybody wot's not temperance."
Bindle was sleepy.

"It's the Master of St. Joseph's, and you've got to clear out."

"We've sent him a letter in your name regretting that you have to
return to town at once."

"Oh, you 'ave, 'ave yer?" remarked Bindle drily.  "I 'ope you told 'im
that I got ter call at Buckingham Palace."

Bindle dressed, shaved, and kept his visitors amused by turn.  He
caught the 11.6, accompanied by Dick Little.  The two men spent their
time in reading the long accounts in the Oxford papers of the previous
evening's "banquet."  They were both full and flattering.  Bindle
chuckled to find that his speech had been reported verbatim, and
wondered how Reggie was enjoying the biographical particulars.

Dick Little and Bindle were unaware that in his rooms at St. Joseph's
Reginald Graves also was reading these selfsame accounts with an
anguish too great for expression.  The accounts of his early life in
particular caused him something akin to horror.

"It didn't last long," murmured Bindle regretfully, "but it was
top-'ole (your words, sir) while it did.  I wonder 'oo's 'oldin'
Reggie's 'ead this mornin'?" and he chuckled gleefully.




CHAPTER XIV

MR. HEARTY GIVES A PARTY


I

"I'm surprised at 'Earty," remarked Bindle to Millie one Friday evening
as they walked across Putney Bridge on the way to meet Charlie Dixon.
"Fancy 'im givin' a party!  It'll be all 'ymns an' misery, wi' some
oranges thrown in to give it the right smell.  There won't be no
Kiss-in-the-ring an' Postman's-knock for the likes o' you an' me,
Millikins."

Millie blushed.  She had no illusions as to the nature of the
festivity: she knew who were to be invited.

"I'm glad you're coming, Uncle Joe," she cried, dancing along beside
him.  "It would be hateful without you."

"Well, o' course I am a bit of an attraction," replied Bindle.  "Lord!
how the ladies fight for me in the kissin' games!"

It was rarely that Mr. Hearty unbent to the extent of entertaining.  He
was usually content with the mild pleasures that the chapel provided,
in the shape of teas, the annual bazaar, and occasional
lantern-lectures bearing such titles as "Jerusalem Revisited," "The
Bible in the East," "A Christian Abroad," delivered by enthusiastic but
prosy amateurs and illustrated by hired lantern-slides.

One day, however, Mr. Hearty came to the determination that it was
quite compatible with his beliefs to give a party.  Not one of the
stupid gatherings where the gramophone vied with round-games, and
round-games with music-hall songs; but one where the spirit of revelry
would be chastened by Christian sobriety.  Mr. Hearty did not object to
music as music, and there were certain songs, such as "The Village
Blacksmith" and "The Chorister" that in his opinion were calculated to
exercise a beneficial effect upon those who heard them.

When Mr. Hearty had at length come to his momentous decision, he was
faced with the problem of the Bindles.  He felt that as a
fellow-chapel-goer he could not very well omit Mrs. Bindle from the
list of the invited; but Bindle would be impossible where Mr. Sopley,
the pastor of the chapel, was to be an honoured guest.

One evening at supper he had, as he thought with consummate tact,
broached the matter to his family.

"Not have Joe?" wheezed Mrs. Hearty.

"Not ask Uncle Joe?" Millie had exclaimed in a tone that her father
thought scarcely filial.

"He is not interested in parties," Mr. Hearty had explained feebly.

"We can't leave Joe out," panted Mrs. Hearty with a decisiveness
unusual to her.  "Why, he'll be the life and soul of the evening."

This was exactly what Mr. Hearty feared; but seeing that his women-folk
were united against him, and after a further feeble protest, he
conceded the point, and the Bindles received their invitation.  Mr.
Hearty had, however, taken the precaution of "dropping a hint" to Mrs.
Bindle, the "hint" in actual words being: "I hope that if Joseph comes
he--he won't----"

"I'll see that he doesn't," was Mrs. Bindle's reply, uttered with a
snap of the jaws that had seemed to reassure her brother-in-law.


II

Mrs. Bindle was engaged in removing curl-papers from her front hair.
On the bed lay her best dress of black alpaca with a bright green satin
yoke covered with black lace.  Beside it lay her best bonnet, also of
black, an affair of a very narrow gauge and built high up at the back,
having the appearance of being several sizes too small for its wearer.

Mrs. Bindle was dressing with great care and deliberation for Mr.
Hearty's party.  Her conception of dress embodied the middle-class
ideals of mid-Victorian neatness, blended with a standard of modesty
and correctness peculiarly her own.

It had cost Mrs. Bindle many anxious days of thought before she had
been able to justify to herself the green satin yoke in her best dress.
With her, to be fashionable was to be fast.  A short skirt and a
pneumonia-blouse were in her eyes the contrivances of the devil to show
what no modest woman would think of exhibiting to the public gaze.

As she proceeded with her toilette Mrs. Bindle was thinking of the
shamelessness of women who bared their arms and shoulders to every
man's gaze.  On principle she disapproved of parties and festivities of
any description that were not more or less concerned with the chapel;
but to her Mr. Hearty could do no wrong, and the fact that their pastor
was to be present removed from her mind any scruples that she might
otherwise have felt.

She was slowly brushing her thin sandy hair when Bindle entered the
bedroom in full evening-dress, the large imitation diamond stud in the
centre of his shirt, patent boots, a red silk handkerchief stuck in the
opening of his waistcoat, the light coat over his arm, and an opera hat
stuck at a rakish angle on his head.  Between his lips was a cigar, one
of the last remaining from the Oxford adventure.

Mrs. Bindle knew nothing of that, and consequently was unaware that
Bindle's wardrobe had been considerably enlarged.

Mrs. Bindle caught sight of him in the looking-glass.  For a moment she
stared at the reflection in helpless amazement, then turning round with
startling suddenness, she continued to regard him with such fixity as
he stood complacently smoking his cigar, that Bindle could not resist
replying with the broadest of grins.

"Where'd you get that dress-suit?" she asked at length, in the tone a
policeman might adopt to a navvy found wearing a diamond tiara.

"It's me own, o' course," replied Bindle cheerily.

"Your own!" gasped Mrs. Bindle.

"O' course it is.  Your ole man's a bit of a blood, Mrs. B., and you're
a lucky woman.  Won't ole 'Earty open them merry eyes of 'is when 'e
sees me to-night.  What-oh!" and Bindle executed a few impromptu steps,
holding his overcoat at arm's-length.

Mrs. Bindle continued to regard him with wonder.  She glanced at her
own rather shabby black dress lying on the bed, and then her eyes
returned to Bindle.  She examined with grim intentness his well-cut
clothes.

"Where'd you get them from?" she rapped.

"Don't you worry where your peacock got 'is tail; you just feel proud,"
replied Bindle, seating himself on the only chair the bedroom boasted.
"Your ole man is goin' to be the belle of the ball to-night."

"You been buyin' them things, an' me doin' my own housework an' keepin'
you when you're out of work!"  Mrs. Bindle's voice rose as the full
sense of the injustice of it all began to dawn upon her.  "You spendin'
money on dress-suits and beer, an' me inchin' an' pinchin' to keep you
in food.  It's a shame.  I won't stand it, I won't."  Mrs. Bindle
looked about her helplessly.  "I'll leave you, I will, you--you----"

"Oh no, yer won't," remarked Bindle complacently; "women like you don't
leave men like me.  That's wot matrimony's for, to keep two people
together wot ought to be kept apart by Act o' Parliament."

"Where'd you get that dress-suit?" broke in Mrs. Bindle tenaciously.

"As I was sayin'," continued Bindle imperturbably, "matrimony's a funny
thing."

"Where'd you get that dress-suit?" Mrs. Bindle broke in again.

Bindle sighed, and cast up his eyes in mock appeal.  "I 'ad it give to
me so that I might be worthy o' wot the Lord 'as sent me an' won't 'ave
back at no price--that is to say, yerself, Mrs. B.  If marriages is
really made in 'eaven, then there ought to be a 'Returned with thanks'
department.  That's my view."  The happy smile with which Bindle
accompanied the remark robbed it of its sting.

For some time Mrs. Bindle continued her toilette in silence, and Bindle
puffed contentedly at his cigar.  Mrs. Bindle was the first to speak.

"I hope you'll be careful what you say to-night."  She had just put on
her bonnet and with many strange grimaces had at last adjusted it and
the veil to her satisfaction.

As she spoke she began to draw on a pair of tight brown kid gloves,
which so contracted her palms as to render her hands practically
useless.

"Our minister is to be there," she continued, "and I don't want to feel
ashamed."

"You ain't a-goin' to feel ashamed o' this, are yer?" enquired Bindle,
as he rose and looked down at himself with obvious appreciation.
"There ain't a-goin' to be nothin' tastier at 'Earty's to-night than
yours truly."

As Mrs. Bindle turned towards the door Bindle lifted his hat with
elaborate courtesy and offered her his left arm.  With a sniff of
disdain Mrs. Bindle passed out of the room.

"I'll find out where you got it, see if I don't," she called out over
her shoulder.

"Well, well!" muttered Bindle as he leisurely followed her.  "I never
was able to lose anythink I wanted to, nor keep anythink I didn't want
ter lose.  'Ow a cove can commit bigamy does me.  Fancy two Mrs. B.'s!
'Old me, 'Orace!"

The Bindles' progress from Fenton Street to the Heartys' private door
was something of a triumph for Mrs. Bindle.  The neighbours turned out
in force, and Bindle exchanged pleasantries with them, whilst Mrs.
Bindle smiled in what was to her an entirely prodigal manner.

"Funny thing me wearin' a top 'at," Bindle had remarked, as he lifted
it for about the twentieth time, this time to a policeman, who stared
hard at him.  Bindle was in a mood to be extremely pleasant with
everybody, and he raised his hat impartially to those he knew and those
he did not know.

The Bindles were late.  The invitation had been for seven o'clock, and
it was fully half-past seven when they arrived.  They were admitted by
the maid-of-all-work, resplendent in a befrilled cap and apron.  Bindle
winked at her, the girl giggled, and Mrs. Bindle glared.

When Mr. and Mrs. Bindle were announced, a hush fell upon the fifteen
or twenty guests who sat in rigid attitudes round the Heartys'
drawing-room.  Conversation had been carried on in constrained and
self-conscious undertones.  Milly, looking very pretty in a simple
white frock with an orange sash, ran across to greet the newcomers,
kissing her uncle heartily and Mrs. Bindle dutifully.

"My!" said Bindle, "ain't we pretty to-night.  You an' me'll go off
with the biscuit, Millikins."  Then he added, after surveying the
circle of vacant faces, "Looks to me as if they want a bit o' ginger.

"'Ullo, 'Earty," said Bindle, advancing towards his brother-in-law,
"sorry we're late, but the coachman was drunk."

Mr. Hearty shuddered.

As he led the Bindles round the room, introducing them with great
elaboration to each and every guest, he marvelled at Bindle's clothes.
He himself wore a black frock-coat, very shiny at the edges, with
trousers that seemed far too long and hung in folds over his boots.

"'Ullo, Martha," Bindle cried, regarding Mrs. Hearty, whose ample
person was clothed in a black skirt and a pale yellow bodice, the neck
of which was cut in a puritan "V."  "You looks like a little
canary-bird."  Then bending down and regarding her earnestly: "Yes, I'm
blowed! why, there's two chins wot I ain't seen before."

Whereat Mrs. Hearty collapsed into ripples and wheezes.  Bindle was the
only self-possessed person in the room.  He regarded his fellow-guests
with keen interest, noted the odour of camphor and mustiness and the
obvious creases in the men's coats.  "Smells like a pawn-shop," he
muttered.  Then he came to the Rev. Mr. Sopley, a gaunt, elderly man,
with ragged beard that covered his entire face, save the cheeks which,
like two little hillocks of flesh, peeped out from a riot of whiskered
undergrowth.

"'Ow are yer, sir?" asked Bindle.

Mr. Sopley raised a pair of agonised eyes.  Before he had time to reply
Mr. Hearty had dragged Bindle on to the next guest.

"Who's 'e?" enquired Bindle in a hoarse whisper, easily heard by
everyone in the room.  "'E seems to 'ave sort o' let his face grow
wild."

Mr. Hearty, who had completed the introductions, coughed loudly.

"Won't you have an orange, Joseph?" he enquired.

Bindle came to a dead stop.

"'Ave a wot?" he asked with great emphasis.  "'Ave a _wot_?"

"An--an--orange, or--or--perhaps you'd sooner have an apple?"  Mr.
Hearty was painfully nervous.

"Now look 'ere, 'Earty," said Bindle, taking his brother-in-law by the
lapel of his coat, "do I look like oranges?  Me wot 'asn't got a bib
wi' me."

Mr. Hearty looked about him.  Everybody seemed to be looking at Bindle
with marked disapproval.  Bindle, on the other hand, gazed about him
with manifest appreciation.

Mrs. Hearty's drawing-room was in its gala attire.  From the gasolier
in the centre chains of coloured paper were festooned to the corners of
the room.  Two large bunches of artificial flowers had been carefully
dusted and renovated and placed in ornaments on the mantel-piece, at
each corner of which stood a rather insignificant-looking lustre
containing a large pink candle.  In the fireplace were white shavings
through which ran threads of gold tinsel.  On a mahogany sideboard was
the first-aid equipment, the preliminary to the more elaborate
refreshments to be served in the dining-room.

There were oranges and apples cut into halves, a pineapple, uncut, and
which it was Mr. Hearty's intention never should be cut, a large plate
of bananas, another of almonds and raisins, several plates of sweets,
which seemed anxious to challenge their hardness against the teeth of
those courageous enough to attack them, three different kinds of nuts,
some syphons, and two large jugs of home-made lemonade.  There were
also plates of figs and oval boxes of dates, looking ashamed of their
own stickiness, and two high piles of blue and white plates.

As Bindle surveyed the refreshments he gave vent to an involuntary sigh.

"There are times," he muttered, "when I wishes I was the brother-in-law
of a bloomin' drunkard."

Mr. Hearty was anxious.  He moved from one guest to another, to some
merely baring his teeth, to others uttering a few meaningless phrases.
Mrs. Hearty sat still, breathing heavily.  Her favourite topic of
conversation was her breath, vast quantities of which were expended in
explaining how little of it she possessed.

Millie flitted about like a disappointed butterfly, finding no place
where she might rest and fold her wings.

At the suggestion of Mr. Hearty two maiden ladies essayed a pianoforte
duet, but with marked unsuccess.  They seemed unable to get off
together.  After several unsuccessful attempts Bindle walked over to
the piano.

"Look 'ere," he remarked, "I'll be starter.  When I say 'three,' off
yer go like giddy-o."

Without a word the duettists rose from the piano and returned to their
seats, their heads held high.  Bindle looked at them in wonderment.  A
silence had fallen over the whole room.  Mr. Sopley looked at the
culprit with an agonised expression, or, as Bindle afterwards expressed
it, "Like a calf wot's lost 'is mother and found a nanny-goat, an'
wonders wot 'e'll do at tea-time."

After a whispered conversation between Millie and Mr. Hearty, they both
bore down upon Mr. Flinders, a small man seated next to a very large
wife, and began an animated conversation with him in undertones.  Mr.
Hearty was genial, Millie pleading, and Mr. Flinders protesting and
shrinking.  Mrs. Flinders eventually terminated the discussion by
giving his arm an upward push, accompanied by a whispered, "Yes,
George, do," whereat George did.  He walked towards the piano, looking
back at his wife and protesting all the while.

Bindle started clapping loudly, which still further embarrassed the
victim.  After much preparation and searching for music, Millie played
the opening chords of "Queen of the Earth," peering anxiously forward
at the music, praying that she should make no mistake.  Mr. Flinders
was an excellent grocer, but a bad singer.  His voice was weak and
erratic.  Each time he reached the chorus, in which everybody joined in
various keys, Bindle in no key at all, it was as if a drowning man were
making a last despairing effort to reach the shore.

At the conclusion of the song things seemed to sink back again into the
slough from which Mr. Flinders had valiantly rescued them.

Unconsciously Mr. Hearty was defeating his object and infecting his
guests with his own nervousness.  Every time he moved across the room
he was followed by the eyes of the whole assembly.  It seemed that only
one thing was capable of happening at a time.  When Millie brought in
her Persian kitten, "Tibbins," everyone became absorbed in it.  Those
who were not near enough to stroke and caress it turned to each other
almost eagerly and said how pretty it was, and what a beautiful tail it
had.

When Tibbins showed with voice and claw that it had exhausted any
capacity for interest that the company may have possessed for it, and
had been let out, another terrible silence fell upon the room.  In
desperation Mr. Hearty seized a plate of figs and another of
half-oranges and handed them round to everyone in turn.  Again interest
centred in him.  Those who had refused watched with the keenest
interest those who were about to refuse, and Mr. Hearty returned the
plates to the sideboard without having disembarrassed them of a single
fig or half-orange.

In desperation he took a fig himself and began to eat it.  Suddenly he
became conscious that all eyes were upon him, watching each bite and
every movement of the curiously large adam's-apple in his throat, which
always jumped about so when he ate.  Nervously he picked up a plate and
placed the remains of the fig upon it, wishing he had not taken it.

Suddenly he had an inspiration.  "We must have a game," he said with
ponderous geniality, putting down the plate containing the half-eaten
fig.  "We'll play 'Here We Go Looping, Looping.'"  With unaccustomed
energy and much labour and persuasion he marshalled all his guests in a
ring, all save Mrs. Hearty and Mr. Sopley.

After much persuasion, arrangement, and explanation, the ring was got
into joyless motion, the guests droning:

  "Here we go looping, looping.
  Here we go looping light.
  Here we go looping, looping.
  Looping all the night.
  Put your noses in,
  Put your noses out,
  Shake them a little, a little, a little.
  And then turn round about."


When they had shaken "a little, a little, a little" such portions of
their anatomy as Mr. Hearty thought it quite proper to mention, the
game ended with the same mirthlessness with which it had begun, and the
players resumed their seats with an air that seemed to say, "We are our
host's guests and must do as he bids us."

"They none of 'em seems to know wot to do wi' their 'ands," whispered
Bindle to Millie.  "They're a rummy crowd.  'Earty must 'ave 'ad a rare
job to pick up such a little lot."

An awkward silence fell over the room.

"'Ave you ever played Kiss-in-the-ring, or Postman's-knock, sir?"
enquired Bindle of Mr. Sopley, at a moment when all attempts at
conversation seemed to have languished.

Mr. Sopley raised his eyes, and Mr. Hearty moved swiftly to his
assistance.  At that moment the door opened and a fair-haired young
man, wearing the turndown collar and white tie of nonconformity,
entered.  For a moment Mr. Hearty hesitated between his desire to save
Mr. Sopley and his duties as host, then with sudden decision threw his
pastor overboard, and turned to welcome the new arrival.

At the Alton Road Chapel a week's mission had been held by a young
missionary, whose remarkable preaching had been the sensation of the
hour.  Mr. Hearty had summoned up sufficient courage to invite him to
the party, and the Rev. Edward Winch had accepted with a cordiality
which still further increased Mr. Hearty's embarrassment.

When the ceremony of introduction and greeting was over, Mr. Winch
seated himself between Mr. Sopley and Bindle, who had been much
interested to hear that the new arrival was a missionary.

"Do yer live in the jungle, sir?" enquired Bindle of Mr. Winch.

"Well, I live in the interior, miles away from any other white men,"
replied Mr. Winch.  "Why do you ask?"

Bindle was thoughtful for a moment.

"Did yer 'appen to take a double-bed with yer, sir?" enquired Bindle.

"A double-bed?" Mr. Winch looked surprised.  "Why, no."

Mr. Hearty coughed, Mr. Sopley lifted his eyes to the ceiling as if
seeking explanation from heaven.  Mrs. Hearty wheezed, and Mrs.
Bindle's lips entirely disappeared.  Bindle looked round at the
embarrassed faces.

"I only knew one missionary," he remarked, "an' 'e wanted to take a
double-bed into the jungle.  Seemed a bit funny like----"

"You must have some lemonade," interrupted Mr. Hearty with forced
geniality.

Mr. Winch smilingly declined, then turning to Bindle, he said:

"No, I have a camp-bedstead, which does not err on the side of luxury
or comfort."

Bindle liked this young man with the blue eyes and ready laugh.  After
watching him for some time, he remarked:

"Yer seem sort of 'appy, sir, if I may say so."

"I am," replied Mr. Winch with a smile.

"Funny," murmured Bindle, half to himself, "an' you a parson, leastwise
a missionary."

"But what has that got to do with it?"  Mr. Winch looked at Bindle in
surprise.

Bindle cast his eyes round the room.  "They don't look wot yer'd call a
jolly crowd, do they?  Look at ole Woe an' Whiskers."  Bindle's glance
left no doubt in Mr. Winch's mind as to whom he referred.

The missionary bit his lip to hide a smile.

"Mr. Sopley has had a lot of trouble," he said quietly.

"It seems to 'ave gone to 'is face," was Bindle's comment.  "'E might
be a bigamist from the look of 'im."

Mr. Winch laughed aloud.  "Why?" he asked.

"You married?" enquired Bindle.

"No."

"Yer'll know when yer are," was the laconic reply.

The arrival of Mr. Winch seemed to transform the whole assembly.  He
and Bindle quickly became the leaders of the revels.  Faces that had
hitherto been shrouded in gloom broke into slow and hesitant smiles.
Several of the men laughed, arguing that if so devout a man as Mr.
Winch could find it in him to laugh, as he very frequently did, then
surely they, being merely laymen, might allow themselves the same
privilege.

It was Mr. Winch who proposed "Blind Man's Buff," and it was Bindle who
when blindfolded caught Mr. Sopley, who was not playing, and after
feeling all over his be-whiskered face guessed him as Millie; and it
was Mr. Winch who laughed so loudly that the others joined in.

Later, at Mr. Winch's suggestion, Bindle led a game of "Follow my
Leader," in which Mr. Sopley had been persuaded to join, and only Mrs.
Hearty remained sitting out.  Bindle's imagination ran riot, and he led
his unwilling tail into many grotesque pranks.  He crawled about on all
fours, barked like a dog, mewed like a cat, jumped and howled, laughed
and sang.  In everything he was faithfully followed by Mr. Winch, who
seemed to enjoy himself with a thoroughness that astonished his
fellow-guests.

The riot culminated in Bindle kissing Millie, who was next to him.  Mr.
Winch, who was third in the living tail, left no doubt in Millie's mind
that she was intended to pass on the compliment.  Bindle watched with
keen enjoyment the embarrassment of his victims, in particular that of
Mrs. Bindle, who was next to Mr. Sopley, as she looked up enquiringly
at the pastor, who bent his head towards her with a weary smile.

"Look at my missis a-burrowin' in all them whiskers," whispered Bindle
to Mr. Winch.

Other games followed, and even Mr. Hearty's face lost that anxious,
haunted look that it had worn during the earlier part of the evening.
When Millie, Bindle, and Mr. Winch handed round the refreshments
everybody took something, and Mr. Hearty beamed.  He became quite
conversational.  His party was a success.  His heart warmed towards Mr.
Winch and Bindle, and--he cut the pineapple.

At supper tongues became loosed, and everyone found that there was more
joy in the world than he or she had thought possible.  Mr. Sopley's
grace had cast a momentary gloom over the table; but this quickly
passed away.  After the meal Mr. Winch said "a few words," and told of
some native customs at similar gatherings, keeping his hearers in a
constant titter.  It was he who suggested that Bindle, whom he
described as "our merry master-of-the-ceremonies," should propose a
vote of thanks to their host.

As Bindle rose with obvious satisfaction, Mr. Hearty caught Mrs.
Bindle's eye, and each knew what were the other's thoughts.

"Ladies an' gentlemen," began Bindle with all the assurance of an
inveterate after-dinner speaker, "I seen some funny things in me time,
includin' a stuffed kangaroo, an' a temperance meetin' where they was
as drunk as dooks; but I never yet see a missionary as could laugh and
enjoy 'isself as Mr. Winch can."

There were looks of consternation on the faces of some of the guests
which Mr. Winch's hearty laugh quickly caused to vanish.

"I almost wish I was one of them funny beggars wot wear only a smile o'
week-days, an' add a bead for Sundays."

Mr. Hearty coughed and Mr. Sopley gazed up at the ceiling.  Mrs. Bindle
had shown no sign of lips since Bindle had risen.

"I never liked missionaries till to-night, though me an' Mrs. Bindle
'ave slep' in a missionary's bed for five year or more.  It never made
no difference to me, though.  If I wasn't in the furniture movin'
business I think I'd be a missionary.

"But I'm up on my 'ind legs to propose the 'ealth of 'Earty, Alfred
'Earty, who's a credit to the vegetables 'e sells for more'n they're
worth.  'E's a bit solemn-like at times, but 'e's got as good a 'eart
as 'is own cabbages.  I known 'Earty since 'e was a young man, and me
an' 'im was arter the same gal once.  She's sittin' over there."
Bindle indicated Mrs. Bindle with a jerk of his thumb.  Mrs. Bindle and
Mr. Hearty grew very red, and Mrs. Hearty wheezed painfully.  "I won,
though; 'Earty warn't nippy enough.  'E could sing 'ymns an' I
couldn't; but yer don't get round gals with 'ymns, leastways not young
gals.  So 'Earty lost one gal an' got another, one of the best."
Bindle pointed to Mrs. Hearty.

"We've all 'ad a pleasant evenin', thanks to Mr. Winch an 'Earty's
lemonade; an' if some of us gets a jar by goin' to the wrong place when
we turns up our toes, I don't mind bettin' a quid it won't be Mr.
Winch.  'E may be a missionary, but 'e's one o' the bhoys."

With that Bindle sat down.  For a moment there was a hush of
consternation, but Mr. Winch came to the rescue with a "Thank you, Mr.
Bindle, I hope you're right."

After that everyone applauded and "Auld Lang Syne" was sung and the
company dispersed, conscious that they had enjoyed themselves as they
had never thought it possible.  They were aware of a feeling that
seemed to be perilously near the mammon of unrighteousness; but they
argued that no blame could attach itself to the flock for doing what
the shepherd acquiesced in.

Mr. Hearty was astonished at the cordiality of the good-nights extended
to Bindle; but when Mr. Sopley said that he hoped to see him at the
Chapel Bazaar to be held a fortnight hence, he was amazed.

He was even more astonished when he heard himself saying, as he shook
Bindle warmly by the hand, "Thank you, Joseph, for--for----"  And then
he lapsed into silence, wondering what it really was for which he was
thankful.

That night Mrs. Bindle had much food for thought.  She had heard Mr.
Sopley's invitation.




CHAPTER XV

BINDLE AND THE GERMAN MENACE


I

"One of the points about this perfession, Ginger," Bindle remarked, "is
that yer sometimes gets an 'oliday."

The two men were seated on the steps leading up to Holmleigh, a
handsome house standing in its own grounds in the village of Little
Compton, in Suffolk.

"Fancy you an' me sittin' 'ere drinkin' in the sunshine," continued
Bindle with a grin.

Ginger grunted.

"Though, Ginger, sunshine ain't got no froth, an' it ain't altogether
good for yer complexion, still it's good for vegetables and most likely
for you too, Ginger.  'Ere we are, 'edges, trees, and no temptation.
The village beauties is nearly as ugly as wot you are, Ginger.  Puts me
in mind o' one of the ole 'Earty 'ymns:

  "Where every prospect pleases,
  And only man is vile."

When they wrote that 'ymn, Ginger, they must 'ave been thinkin' o' you
at Little Compton.

"Well, I'm orf for a drink; I can't eat me dinner dry, same's you.  The
further yer goes for yer beer the more yer enjoys it.  Sorry you're too
tired, ole son.  S' long!"

Bindle and Ginger, among others, had been selected by the foreman to
accompany him on an important moving job.  A Mr. Henry Miller, well
known throughout the kingdom as possessing one of the most valuable
collections of firearms in the country, was moving from London into
Suffolk.  He had stipulated that only thoroughly trustworthy men should
be permitted to handle his collection, and insisted on the contractors
supplying all the hands instead of, as was usual, sending one man and
hiring the others locally.  Thus it came about that Bindle and the
gloomy Ginger found themselves quartered for a few days at Lowestoft.

As Bindle approached the Dove and Easel, famous as being the only inn
in the kingdom so named, Mr. John Gandy stood reading a newspaper
behind the bar.  When business was slack Mr. Gandy always read the
newspaper, and in consequence was the best-informed man upon public
affairs in Little Compton.

As if sensing a customer, Mr. Gandy laid down the paper and gazed
severely over the top of his gold-rimmed spectacles at nothing in
particular.  He was a model publican, from his velvet skullcap and
immaculate Dundreary whiskers to his brilliantly polished and squeaky
boots.

As he pursued his contemplation Mr. Gandy saw the outer doors pushed
open, admitting a stream of yellow sunshine and with it a little
bald-headed man with a red nose and green baize apron.  It was Bindle.
He approached the counter, eyed Mr. Gandy deliberately, and ordered a
pint of ale.

Mr. Gandy drew the beer as if it were a sacred office, wheezing the
while.  He was a man with a ponderous manner, and a full bar or an
empty bar made no difference to the sacred flow of the liquor.  He had
an eye that could cower a "drunk" more effectually than the muscle of a
barman.

"Dry work, movin'," said Bindle pleasantly.

Mr. Gandy wheezed.

"I'm a stranger 'ere," Bindle continued, as he produced some bread and
cheese from a piece of pink newspaper.  "Funny little 'ole I calls it.
Nothin' to do, as far as I can see.  No street accidents 'ere, wot?"
and he laughed genially at his own joke.

"You're one of the pantechnicon-men from Holmleigh?" queried Mr. Gandy
with dignity.

"Right, first time!" laughed the irrepressible Bindle with his mouth
full of bread and cheese.  "I'm up at the fort, I am."

"The fort?" queried Mr. Gandy.  "The fort?"

"Yes, the fort," grinned Bindle.  "That's what I calls it.  Never saw
so many guns in all me puff--millions of 'em."

Bindle was obviously serious, and Mr. Gandy became interested.  At that
moment a carter entered.  Bindle immediately proceeded to get into
conversation with the newcomer.  Presently he caught Mr. Gandy's eye
and read in it curiosity.  Mr. Gandy then slowly transferred his gaze
to the door of the bar-parlour.  Bindle followed Mr. Gandy's eye, and
with a nod, sauntered towards the door, looked round, saw that he was
right and passed through, softly closing it behind him.

A minute later Mr. Gandy moved in the same direction, lifted the flap
of the bar and passed into the room, also closing the door behind him.
As he left the bar he touched a bell which produced Mrs. Gandy, in
black, wearing much jewellery and a musical-comedy smile as persistent
as Mr. Gandy's wheeze.

When Bindle went forth from the bar-parlour it was with a joyous look
in his eye and half-a-crown in his pocket.  Outside the Dove and Easel
he lifted his green baize apron, a finger and thumb at each corner, and
made a few shuffling movements with his feet; then he winked, grinned,
and finally laughed.

"I shouldn't be surprised if things was to 'appen in this funny little
'ole," he remarked, as he passed on his way up the road.

Mr. Gandy left the bar-parlour, spoke to Mrs. Gandy, and disappeared
through the glass door into the private parlour.  Two hours later Mr.
Gandy reappeared.  He had made up his mind.

Bindle's mind was working busily.  He was obviously in possession of a
secret that other people thought worth paying for.  As he walked down
the village street he pondered deeply.  He paused and slapped his green
baize apron-covered leg.  He walked over to where Mrs. Grinder was
standing at the door of her little general shop.  A remark of Mr.
Gandy's had set him thinking.

"Mornin', mother," he called out in salutation.

"Good-morning," responded Mrs. Grinder with a smile.

"'Oo's the biggest bug 'ere?"

"The what?"

"The swells; them as grind you an' me down an' make us un'appy," Bindle
explained.

"There's Sir Charles Custance at The Towers, up on the left where the
poplars are, and Mr. Greenhales at the Home Farm, and----"

"That's enough.  I'm stayin' in this neighbour'ood, and if I wasn't to
call on the nobs they might be 'urt in their private feelin's.  Glad to
see yer lookin' so merry an' bright.  Mornin'."  And cap in hand,
Bindle made an elaborate bow and passed on his way, leaving the buxom
Mrs. Grinder wreathed in smiles.

Half an hour later he walked down the drive of The Towers, the
residence of Sir Charles Custance, J.P., a sovereign richer than when
he entered.

At the gates of The Towers he paused.  Coming towards him was a
dog-cart, driven by a small, fierce-looking little man.  It was Mr.
Roger Greenhales, who farmed as a hobby, at a considerable yearly loss,
to prove that the outcry against the unprofitableness of English
land-culture was ridiculous.

Bindle spoke to Mr. Greenhales, and in ten minutes received five
shillings.  He then proceeded to Holmleigh, where he found his foreman,
and also that he had extended his dinner hour into two.


II

"It's a national affair, I tell you, Wrannock!"

Sir Charles Custance, J.P., leaned back in his library chair, and
surveyed the impassive features of Sergeant Wrannock, as if searching
for some contradiction; but Sergeant Wrannock of the Suffolk County
Constabulary merely shuffled his feet and said:

"Yes, sir!"

"I'll call at the house this afternoon, and see if there's anything to
be discovered.  I'll go now; damme, if I don't.  We'll both go."

Sir Charles jumped up forthwith.  He was a short, stout man, with
bushy, magisterial eyebrows, a red complexion, a bald head, a monocle,
and a fierce don't-argue-with-me-sir manner.

He was a man who had but one topic of conversation--the coming German
invasion.  It would not be his fault if the Germans found Little
Compton unprepared.  He had pointed out that, being an East Coast
village, it lay in the very centre of the battle-ground.  At first
Little Compton had felt uncomfortable; but later it had apparently
become reconciled to its fate.  It did nothing.

No village in England knew better what invasion would mean.  Sir
Charles had drawn a vivid picture of what would be the fate of the
women of Little Compton unless their men-folk repelled the invaders,
with the result that the Dorcas Society, with the full approval of the
vicar, wrote to Sir Charles protesting against such things being said
on a public platform.

As he trotted towards the door, Sir Charles turned to the sergeant and
said:

"This is a big business, Wrannock, a big business.  We'll find out more
before we communicate with headquarters.  See?"  And Sir Charles glared
fiercely at the sergeant.

Sergeant Wrannock did see.  He saw many things, including promotion for
himself, and he replied, "It is indeed, sir!"  And the two men went out.

From The Towers to Holmleigh is not more than half a mile.  Sir Charles
went first, leaving the sergeant to follow on his bicycle.  If they
were seen together it might arouse suspicion.

Sir Charles was to go to Holmleigh, making the best excuse he could
think of, and spy out the land, and the sergeant, who fortunately was
not in uniform, was to follow half an hour later.  At six o'clock they
were to meet at The Towers and compare notes.

On his way up the drive of Holmleigh Sir Charles met Mr. Gandy coming
away with a flushed and angry face.  For the first time in history his
"look" had failed.  He had been insulted, and that by a foreman
pantechnicon-man.

Sir Charles acknowledged Mr. Gandy's salute, attaching no significance
to the presence of the host of the Dove and Easel in the grounds of
Holmleigh.  Most probably he had called to solicit the new tenant's
custom.  So Mr. Gandy passed down the drive with a stormy face, and Sir
Charles walked up with a determined one.

The hall door was open, and men were passing to and fro carrying
various articles of furniture.  Sir Charles's eyes greedily devoured
all that was to be seen--in particular some long, coffin-like wooden
cases.

He stood at the door for a minute; it seemed unnecessary to ring with
so many men about.  Presently a man came up and stared at him, rather
offensively Sir Charles thought; but, remembering the delicate nature
of his mission, he adjusted his monocle and said politely:

"I--er--want to see one of the er--er--moving men."

"Certainly, sir," responded the man; "'ave you any choice?'"

Sir Charles fixed his monocle more firmly in his left eye, and stared
at the man in astonishment.

"We've got 'em from twenty-three to sixty-five.  I'm forty-eight
meself, but p'r'aps you'd like a young 'un.  Fair or dark, sir, tall or
short?"

Sir Charles gazed at the man as if dazed, then went very red, but
controlling his wrath he replied:

"I do not know his name, I'm afraid.  He has a green baize apron and
is--er--bald, and--er--has a rather red nose."

The man smiled broadly, insolently, intolerably, Sir Charles thought.

"That won't 'elp us much, sir.  Blessed if you 'aven't described the
'ole blessed perfession.  Hi!  Ginger?"  This to Ginger, who was
passing.  He approached.  "This is rather a tasty little lot, sir.
'E's got a red 'ead as well as a red nose.  Not 'im?  Well, let me see.
Tell Bindle to come 'ere.  I think Bindle may be your man, sir; 'e's
got some pals in these 'ere parts, I think."

For nearly half a minute Sir Charles glared at the man before him, who
grinned back with perfect self-possession.

"This 'im, sir?" he queried, as Bindle approached.

"Damn your insolence!" burst out Sir Charles.  "I'll report you to your
employers!"  But the foreman had disappeared to give an order, and
Bindle also had slipped away.

Sir Charles raged back down the drive, striving to think of some means
of punishing the insolence of the foreman pantechnicon-man.

A quarter of an hour later Mr. Greenhales arrived at the hall door of
Holmleigh.  The foreman was there to receive him.

"Good-afternoon," said Mr. Greenhales pleasantly.

"You want to see one of our men; you don't know 'is name, but 'e's a
rather bald little man, with a green baize apron an' a red nose?"
replied the foreman blandly.

"Exactly!" responded Mr. Greenhales genially.  "Exactly!  Kindly tell
him."

"I'm sorry, sir, it was 'is reception-day, but 'e's been took ill; 'e
asked me to apologise.  'E's got a lot of pals about 'ere.  I shouldn't
be surprised if that was the cause of his illness.  Good-arternoon,
sir.  I'll tell 'im you called."

The foreman shut the door in Mr. Greenhales' face, and for the third
time that afternoon anger strode down the drive of Holmleigh.

In the hall the much-wanted Bindle was listening intently to his
foreman.

"You seem to be holdin' a levvy to-day, Bindle.  Seem to 'ave a lot o'
blinkin' pals 'ere, too!  Didn't know you was a society man, Bindle.
They're all so fond of you, so it 'pears.  'Adn't you better give up
this line o' business, you with your gif's, and take to squirin' it?
You'd look fine follerin' the 'ounds, you would.  Now, it's about time
you decided wot you really are.  Two hours you take for yer dinner, an'
spend the arternoon receivin' callers, me a-openin' the scarlet door.
Now you get back to the brilliant furniture removin', and give up yer
stutterin' ambitions.  If I was you----"

Bindle was never to know what the foreman would do if in his place.  At
that moment a loud peal at the bell caused the foreman to pause.  He
gazed from Bindle to the door, from the door to Bindle, and back again
to the door.  During the two seconds that his superior's eyes were off
him Bindle slipped stealthily away.

The foreman went slowly to the door and opened it.  He found there a
middle-aged, rather stout man, dressed in tweeds, with trousers clipped
for cycling.  Behind him he held a bicycle.  It was Sergeant Wrannock.

The foreman eyed the caller aggressively, his hands moving
convulsively.  There was that about his appearance which caused his
caller to step suddenly back.  The bicycle overturned with a clatter,
and the sergeant sat down with great suddenness on the front wheel.

The foreman eyed him indifferently.  The tears were streaming from the
sergeant's eyes, for he had sat with considerable force upon one of the
coasters.  When he had picked himself up and replaced the bicycle the
foreman spoke.

"If you've come 'ere to show me that trick, you've bloomin' well wasted
yer time.  You ain't no Cinquevalli, ole son!  If, 'owever, you're
a-lookin' for a bald little man with a green apron and a red nose"--the
sergeant's eyes brightened beneath the tears--"well, 'e's bin took ill,
an' 'is mother's took 'im 'ome.

"Now you'd better go, cockie, 'fore I set the dog on yer.  I'm pretty
damn well sick of the 'sight of yer, comin' 'ere with yer bicycle
tricks, interruptin' o' the day's work.  'Ere, Bindle--where's Bindle?"
he shouted into the house.

But the sergeant did not wait.  He mounted his machine and disappeared
down the drive.  Before Bindle came--and Bindle was uneager to
respond--he was a quarter of a mile up the road.

Sergeant Wrannock was stunned at the treatment he had received.  From
such men he was accustomed to respect, deference, and blind obedience.
To be called "cockie" by a workman astonished him.  Soon he became
annoyed, in time his annoyance crystallised into anger, and eventually,
passing through the alembic of professional discretion, it became
distilled into a determination to teach this man a lesson.

He had no intention of letting him know that it was a police sergeant
whom he had thus rudely treated, as if he were some ordinary person.
He could not quite understand the reference to the "bald little man
with a green apron and a red nose."  The particulars seemed, however,
to tally with the description of the man of whom Sir Charles had spoken.

At six o'clock he presented himself at The Towers, told his story, and
was bidden by Sir Charles to leave the matter until the morning, when
it would probably be better to report the whole affair to the
superintendent at Lowestoft.  Sir Charles had his reasons for
suggesting delay.




CHAPTER XVI

THE AMATEUR DETECTIVES


I

By nine o'clock the last pantechnicon that was going back that night
had rumbled off to Lowestoft, there to be entrained for London.  One
still remained on the drive, waiting to be taken back by the horses
that would bring the first van in the morning.

With the last van went Bindle, much to his regret.

"It's like not goin' to yer own funeral," he grumbled.

Holmleigh was shut up and in darkness, save for a slit of light that
could be seen beneath the Venetian blind of the dining-room.  Inside
the room sat the foreman.

He was smoking a meditative pipe, and cursing the luck that left him at
Holmleigh to play night-watchman.  He was not a nervous man, but his
mind instinctively travelled back to the events of the day.  Why had so
many people been desirous of seeing Bindle?  He had subjected Bindle
himself to a very thorough and picturesque cross-examination.  He had
told him what he thought of him, and of those responsible for his
being.  He had coaxed him and threatened him, but without result.
Bindle had expressed the utmost astonishment at his sudden popularity,
and professed himself utterly unable to account for it.

Once or twice the foreman thought he saw the shadow of a grin flit
across Bindle's face, especially when Bindle suggested that he should
act as night-watchman, adding as an excuse the obvious fatigue of his
superior.  It was this that had terminated the interview with great
suddenness.

Thus meditating upon the curious occurrences of the day, the foreman
dropped off to sleep, for he was tired, and the armchair, in which he
half lay, half sat, was extremely comfortable.

As he slept a dark form moved stealthily up the drive towards the
house.  Keeping well within the shadow of the trees, it paused to
listen, then moved on for a dozen yards and stopped again.  When it
reached the top of the drive it crept off to the left in the direction
of the tradesmen's entrance.

Displaying great caution, the figure finally reached the scullery
window, which by a curious chance was unfastened.  After great
deliberation, and much listening, it opened the window, and inserting
itself feet foremost disappeared.

Three minutes later the back door was noiselessly unbolted and opened.
The figure looked out cautiously, then retreated within, leaving the
door open to its fullest extent.

The first figure had scarcely disappeared before another approached the
back door from the opposite direction.  It must have come through the
hedge and crept along in its shadow from the main entrance.  The second
figure paused, as if astonished at finding the back door open.  For
some minutes it stood in the shadow of the water-butt, listening.
Finally, with a quiet, insidious motion, it slid through the doorway.

The first figure, passing cautiously through the servants' quarters,
had reached the hall.  Finding all the doors shut, it proceeded
stealthily upstairs to the large drawing-room that overlooked the
drive.  The door was open!  Groping its way with great care, the figure
for one second allowed the light of a dark lantern to show.  The effect
was startling.  The whole room was piled up with long narrow wooden
cases.  On several tables, formed by boards on trestles, were laid out
what appeared to be dozens of rifles.  The figure gasped.  The place
was apparently nothing less than a huge arsenal.  The long narrow cases
contained guns! guns!! guns!!!

The figure had just picked up one of the guns to make sure that its
eyes were telling the truth, when there was the sound of a footfall on
the landing.

The figure turned quickly, and the rifle dropped with a crash to the
floor.  For some time it stood as if petrified with horror, then with a
swift, stealthy movement reached the door.  Here it turned sharply to
the left and ran into something small and soft.  With a yell the
something turned.  In a moment two forms were locked together.  With a
thud they fell, and lay a writhing, wriggling mass at the top of the
stairs.


II

The foreman had no idea how long he had slept, or what it was that
awakened him; but suddenly he found himself wide awake with a feeling
that something was happening.  The lamp had gone out, there was no
moon, and he felt cold, although he knew it to be July.

For a minute he listened intently.  Not a sound broke the stillness,
save the rustle of the trees as the wind sighed through them.  He went
to the window and looked out under the blind.  It was quite dark.  He
shook himself, then pinched his leg.  Yes, he was awake.

Then he heard a creak overhead, and it suddenly came home to him that
the house was being burgled.  A passionate anger seemed to grip hold of
him.  Silently and swiftly he opened the door that led into the hall.
He had not moved three steps before he was brought to a standstill by a
yell that echoed through the whole place.  It was followed a moment
later by what appeared to be an avalanche descending the stairs.  From
stair to stair it bumped through the darkness, and finally lay heaving
and grunting almost at his feet.  There were muttered exclamations,
curses, threats, and the dull sound of blows.

The foreman sprang forward and clutched with his right hand a human
ear.  Feeling about with his left hand, he secured a handful of hair.
Then he brought two heads together with a crack.  The muttering and
movement ceased, and the foreman pantechnicon-man struck a match.

"Crikey!"  The exclamation burst involuntarily from his lips.  He
rummaged in his pockets and presently produced about two inches of
candle; this he lighted and held over the recumbent mass at his feet.

"Well, I'm--I'm blowed!" he stuttered, conscious of the inadequacy of
his words.  There at his feet lay Mr. Greenhales and Sergeant Wrannock,
whom the foreman recognised only as two of the afternoon's visitors.
For fully two minutes he stood regarding his captives; then, with a
grin of delight, he blew out the candle, carefully opening the front
door.

There was nothing to be seen save the trees and the empty
pantechnicon-van.  The great black shape appeared to give him an idea.
The doors were open, and without hesitation he stepped back into the
hall, picked up one of the prostrate figures, and carried it into the
van; a moment later he did the same with the other.  Closing the doors,
he barred and padlocked them and re-entered the hall.

Later he returned to the pantechnicon, unfastened the padlock, and left
the doors merely barred.  Still grinning to himself he once more
entered the house, picking up an old-fashioned pistol from many that
lay upon the dining-room table.  Next he opened the dining-room windows
at the bottom, performing the same operation with those in the
morning-room.

Finally, locking the doors of both rooms from the outside, he made a
tour of the whole house, and, having satisfied himself that no one was
secreted within, he slipped out of the front door and closed it behind
him, unaware that a pair of terrified eyes were watching him from the
head of the stairs.

"There's two still to come," he muttered, and waited.  At the end of an
hour he heard a grind as of gravel beneath a boot.  He listened
eagerly.  After fully five minutes of silence he heard another grind,
and a dark shape approached the dining-room window.  The foreman still
waited.  It took a quarter of an hour for the shape to make up its mind
to raise the window higher and enter.  The sound of suppressed wheezing
could be distinctly heard.  When the figure had with difficulty forced
itself upon the window-sill, the foreman leapt out, grasped its leg,
and pulled.  There was a wheezy shout, and the foreman was kneeling on
the path, with a figure between his knees and the gravel.

Again he struck a match, which disclosed the ashen features of the
landlord of the Dove and Easel.  Without hesitation the foreman picked
him up and bundled him into the pantechnicon and once more barred the
door.  As he turned back he saw the hall door open slightly.  At first
he thought it was his imagination.  As he watched, however, the door
continued to open stealthily, inch by inch, until finally a figure
appeared.

Dawn was breaking, and in the half-light he saw a small man slide out
and creep along by the side of the house.  At first the foreman
watched; then, seeing that his man was likely to escape, he sprang out.
The figure ran, the foreman ran, and ran the faster.  Then the fugitive
stopped, and facing round caught the foreman a blow in the chest as he
came on unable to stop.

With a yell of rage the foreman lifted his pistol and brought it down
with a crash upon his opponent's head.  In a grey heap the trespasser
dropped.  Another match was struck, revealing Sir Charles Custance's
rubicund features, down which a slow trickle of blood wound its way.

"That's the 'ole bloomin' bag, I take it," commented the victor grimly,
as he bundled the portly frame of the magistrate into the van, taking
every precaution against a possible rush for freedom on the part of the
other captives.  He then addressed the interior at large.

"I'm a-watchin' outside, and if yer so much as cough or blow yer noses
I'll shoot through the sides with this 'ere ole blunderbuss.  D' ye
'ear, cockies?"

With that he banged the doors to, barred and padlocked them, and sat on
the tail-board watching the greyness of the dawn steal through the
trees, as he struggled to keep awake.

He was so occupied when, at half-past seven, a distant rumble announced
the arrival of the expected pantechnicon from Lowestoft.  As it slowly
lumbered up the drive the foreman grinned, and he grinned more broadly
when he saw Bindle slip from the tail-board, followed by Ginger and two
other men.

"Mornin', Bindle; mornin', Ginger," he called out politely.  "Slep'
well?"

Bindle grinned, and Ginger grumbled something inaudible.

"Now, one o' you two go an' get my breakfast, and the other telephone
for the perlice."

The men stared at him.

"Ginger," he continued complacently, "you'll find two eggs and some
bacon in the 'all, an' a stove in the kitchen, an' a pot of coffee wot
only wants warmin' up.  I'm 'ungry, Ginger--as 'ungry as 'ell is for
you, Ginger.  Bindle, give my compliments to the perlice at Lowestoft,
and arst them to send a few peelers over 'ere at once to take charge o'
what I caught last night."

Bindle scratched his head, uncertain whether or no it was all a joke.

"Yes, Bindle," continued the foreman, "I've got 'em all--all in Black
Maria," and he jerked his thumb in the direction of the pantechnicon.
"All yer very dear ole pals, cockie.  Like to see 'em?"

Bindle still looked puzzled; but when the foreman had explained his
grin transcended in its breadth and good-humour that of his superior.
Then the foreman changed the style of his idiom, and his subordinates
went their ways as he had intended and directed that they should.

The foreman was just finishing his breakfast by sopping up the
bacon-fat with a piece of bread, when there reached him the sound of a
motor-car chunking its way along in the distance.

The news of the night's doings had spread rapidly, and a small crowd
was collected round the gates of Holmleigh.  Bindle grinned through the
bars, and occasionally threw to the curious neighbours bits of
information.

The car approached and drew up.  In it was a tall, spare man of about
thirty-eight or forty, with thin, angular features.  He seemed
surprised to see the crowd; but turning the car through the open gates
drove slowly up to the house.

The crowd recognised the stranger as Mr. Richard Miller, the new tenant
of Holmleigh.  He nodded to the foreman, who immediately descended from
the tail-board and approached.

"Good-mornin', sir," he said.  "You're earlier than wot I 'ad 'oped,
sir; but that's on the lucky side.  I been 'avin' rather a lively
night, sir."

At this moment there was a loud and continuous pounding from within the
pantechnicon that he had just left.

"If you're not quiet I'll shoot--God forgive me, but I will," he
shouted over his shoulder.  Then turning to Mr. Miller he winked
jocosely.  "Gettin' a bit impatient, sir.  They 'eard you come, I
s'pose.  I've 'ad 'em there for several hours now.  Ah! 'ere's the
perlice!"

As he spoke another car appeared round the bend of the drive, and an
inspector in uniform and three plain-clothes men got out.

"Now there's goin' to be some fun," the foreman chuckled to himself as,
addressing Mr. Miller, he told of the happenings of the night before.

When he had finished, the features of Bindle, who had been relieved by
Ginger, were suffused with a grin so broad and good-humoured that it
contrasted strangely with the astonishment written on the faces of the
others.

"That's the story, gentlemen, and there's my bag," jerking his thumb in
the direction of the pantechnicon.  "Four of 'em there are, I counted
'em carefully, an' every one a Charles Peace.  You'd better be careful
as you let 'em out," he added.  "I 'adn't time to search 'em.  They
came so quick, like flies in summer."

The inspector breathed hard, Mr. Miller looked grave and concerned, the
plain-clothes men looked blank, Bindle looked cheerful, whilst the
foreman looked as a man looks only once in a lifetime.  Deliberately he
approached the tail of the van, undid the lock, removed the bar, threw
open the doors, and stood quietly aside.  For fully half a minute
nothing happened; then the portly form of Sergeant Wrannock emerged.

"Wrannock!" gasped the inspector from Lowestoft.  The sergeant forgot
to salute his superior officer.  He was humiliated.  His collar was
torn, one eye was blackened, and his nose was swollen.

Closely following him came Sir Charles Custance and Mr. Greenhales, who
between them supported the inert form of Mr. Gandy, wheezing pitifully.
All were much battered.  Sir Charles's face was covered with blood, Mr.
Greenhales had lost his wig and his false teeth, whilst Mr. Gandy had
lost the power to move.

"What in heaven's name is the meaning of this?" asked the inspector.

"It means," thundered Sir Charles, who was the first to find his voice,
"that we have been brutally and murderously assaulted by a band of
ruffians."

"That's me, and me only!" commented the foreman complacently.  "I'm the
band, cockie, and don't you forget it."

"It means," said Sergeant Wrannock, "that having information that this
house was packed with firearms, I came to make investigation and----"

"Got caught, cockie," interrupted the foreman.

"Hold your tongue!" shouted Mr. Greenhales, in a hollow, toothless
voice, dancing with fury.  "Hold your tongue!  You shall suffer for
this."

At last, from the incoherent shoutings and reproaches in which the
words "Germans," "Spies," "Herr Müller," were bandied back and forth,
Mr. Miller and the inspector pieced together the story of how four
patriots had been overcome by one foreman pantechnicon-man.  The
inspector turned to Mr. Miller.

"As a matter of form, sir, and in the execution of my duty, I should be
glad to know if it is true that your house is full of arms and
ammunition?" he asked politely.

"Of arms, certainly, Inspector, most certainly," Mr. Miller replied.
"I am supposed to have the finest collection of firearms in the
country.  Come and see them, or such as are unpacked."

And the inspector looked at Sergeant Wrannock, and the plain-clothes
constables looked away from him, and Sir Charles and Mr. Greenhales
looked irefully round for Bindle; but Bindle was nowhere to be seen.

"Funny none of 'em seem to see the joke!" he remarked to a clump of
rhododendrons half-way down the drive.




CHAPTER XVII

BINDLE MAKES A MISTAKE


I

"Bindle there?"

"No, sir; 'e's down the yard."

"Tell him I want him."

"Right, sir."

The manager of the West London Furniture Depository, Ltd., returned to
his office.  A few minutes later Bindle knocked at the door and,
removing the blue-and-white cricket cap from his head, entered in
response to the manager's, "Come in."

"Wonder wot 'e's found out.  Shouldn't be surprised if it was them
guns," muttered Bindle prophetically under his breath.

Bindle had been employed by the Depository for six months, and had
acquitted himself well.  He was a good workman and trustworthy, and had
given conclusive proof that he knew his business.

The manager looked up from a letter he held in his hand.

"I've had a very serious letter from Sir Charles Custance of Little
Compton," he began.

"No bad news, I 'ope, sir," remarked Bindle cheerfully.  "Brooks sort
o' shook 'im up a bit, accordin' to 'is own account."  Brooks was the
foreman pantechnicon-man.

The manager frowned, and proceeded to read aloud Sir Charles's letter.
It recapitulated the events that had taken place at Little Compton,
painting Bindle and the foreman as a pair of the most desperate
cut-throats conceivable, threatening, not only them, but the West
London Furniture Depository with every imaginable pain and penalty.

When he had finished, the manager looked up at Bindle with great
severity.

"You've heard what Sir Charles Custance writes.  What have you got to
say?" he asked.

Bindle scratched his head and shuffled his feet.  Then he looked up
with a grin.

"Yer see, sir, I wasn't to know that they was as scared as rabbits o'
the Germans.  I jest sort o' let an 'int drop all innocent like, an'
the 'ole bloomin' place turns itself into a sort o' Scotland Yard."

"But you sought out Sir Charles and"--the manager referred to the
letter--"'and laid before me an information,' he says."

"I didn't lay nothink before 'im, sir, not even a complaint, although
'is language when 'e come out o' the ark wasn't fit for Ginger to 'ear,
an' Ginger's ain't exactly Sunday-school talk."

The manager was short-handed and anxious to find some means of
placating so important a man as Sir Charles Custance, and, at the same
time, retaining Bindle's services.  He bit the top of his pen
meditatively.  It was Bindle who solved the problem.

"I better resign," he suggested, "and then join up again later, sir.
You can write an' say I'm under notice to go."

The manager pondered awhile.  He was responsible for the conduct of the
affairs of the Depository, and, after all, Sir Charles Custance and the
others had been mainly responsible for what had occurred.

"I'll think the matter over," he remarked.  "In the meantime Brooks is
away, Mr. Colter is ill, and Jameson hasn't turned up this morning, and
we have that move in West Kensington to get through during the day.  Do
you think that you can be responsible for it?"

"Sure of it, sir.  I been in the perfession, man and boy, all me life."

The West London Furniture Depository made a specialty of moving
clients' furniture whilst they were holiday-making.  They undertook to
set out the rooms in the new house exactly as they had been in the old,
with due allowance for a changed geography.

"Here is the specification," said the manager, handing to Bindle a
paper.  "Now how will you set to work?"

"'Five bed, two reception, one study, one kitchen, one nursery,'" read
Bindle.  "Two vans'll do it, sir.  Best bedroom, servant's.
dinin'-room, No. 1; second bedroom, drawin'-room, No. 2; two bedrooms
and kitchen No. 3, and the rest No. 4.  Then you see we shan't get 'em
mixed."

The manager nodded approvingly.

"Do you think you could replace the furniture?"

"Sure as I am o' Mrs. Bindle.  I can carry an 'ole 'ouse in me eye;
they won't know they've even moved."

"The keys are at the West Kensington Police Station.  Here is the
authority, with a note from me.  It's No. 181 Branksome Road you're to
fetch the furniture from.  Here's the key of the house you are to take
it to--No. 33 Lebanon Avenue, Chiswick.  Take Nos. 6 and 8 vans, with
Wilkes, Huggles, Randers, and the new man."

"Right, sir," said Bindle; "I'll see it through."

Bindle returned to the yard, where he narrated to his mates what had
just taken place in the manager's room.

"So yer see, Ginger, I'm still goin' to stay wi' yer, correct yer
language an' make a gentleman o' yer.  So cheer up, 'Appy."

Bindle gathered together his forces and set out.  He was glad to be
able to include Ginger, whose misanthropic outlook upon life was a
source of intense interest to him.  Outside the police-station he
stepped off the tail-board of the front van, saying that he would
overtake them.

"Come to give yourself up?" enquired the sergeant, who had a slight
acquaintance with Bindle.

"Not yet, ole sport; goin' to give yer a chance to earn promotion.  I
come for a key."

Bindle handed in his credentials.

At that moment two constables entered with a drunken woman screaming
obscenities.  The men had all they could do to hold her.  Bindle
listened for a moment.

"Lord, she ain't learnt all that at Sunday-school," he muttered; then
turning to the sergeant, said, "'Ere, gi'e me my key.  I didn't ought
to 'ear such things."

The sergeant hurriedly turned to a rack behind him, picked up the key
and handed it to Bindle.  His attention was engrossed with the new
case; it meant a troublesome day for him.

Bindle signed for the key, put it in his pocket and left the station.

He overtook the vans just as they were entering Branksome Road.
Pulling the key out of his pocket he looked at the tag.

"Funny," he muttered, "thought he said a 'undred an' eighty-one, not a
'undred an' thirty-one."

He took a scrap of paper out of his pocket, on which he had written
down the number in the manager's office.  It was clearly 181.  The
sergeant had given him the wrong key.

"'Ere!  Hi!" he began, when he stopped suddenly, a grin overspreading
his features.  Suddenly he slapped his knee.

"Wot a go!  'Oly Moses, I'll do it!  I only 'ope they 'aven't left no
servants in the 'ouse.  Won't it be----  Hi, where the 'ell are you
goin' to?  You're passin' the 'ouse."

"Didn't yer say a 'undred an' heighty-one?" came the hoarse voice of
Wilkes from the front of the first of the pantechnicons.

"A 'undred an' thirty-one, you ole 'Uggins.  'Adn't yer better count it
up on yer fingers?  Yer can use yer toes if yer like."

There was a growl in response.  Bindle was popular with his mates, and
no one ever took offence at what he said.

The two vans drew up before No. 131, and the four men grouped
themselves by the gate.

Bindle surveyed them with a grin.

"Lord, wot a army of ole reprobates!  Wilkes," said Bindle gravely,
addressing an elderly man with a stubbly beard and a persistent cough,
of which he made the most, "yer must get out of that 'abit o' yours o'
shavin' only on jubilee days and golden weddin's.  It spoils y'
appearance.  Yer won't get no more kisses than a currycomb."

Bindle was in high spirits.

"'Ullo, Ginger, where's that clean coller you was wearin' last Toosday
week?  Lent it to the lodger?  'Ere, come along.  Let's lay the dust
'fore we starts."  And Bindle and his squad trooped off to the nearest
public-house.

A quarter of an hour later they returned and set to work.  Bindle
laboured like one possessed, and inspired his men to more than usual
efforts.  Nothing had been prepared, and consequently there was much
more to do than was usually the case.  One of the men remarked upon
this fact.

"They ain't a-goin' to pay you for doin' things and do 'em theirselves,
so look slippy," was Bindle's response.

The people at No. 129 manifested considerable surprise in the doings of
Bindle and his assistants.  Soon after a start had been made, the
maidservant came to the front door for a few moments, and watched the
operations with keen interest.  As Bindle staggered down the path
beneath a particularly voluminous armchair she ventured a tentative
remark.

"I'm surprised that Mrs. Rogers is movin'," she said.

"Not 'alf as surprised as she'll be when she finds out," muttered
Bindle with a grin, as he deposited the chair on the tail of the van
for Ginger to stow away.

"Funny she shouldn't 'ave told yer," he remarked to the girl as he
returned up the path.

"You ain't 'alf as funny as you think," retorted the girl with a toss
of her head.

"If you're as funny as you look, Ruthie dear, you ought to be worth a
lot to yer family," retorted Bindle.

"Where did you get that nose from?" snapped the girl pertly.

"Same place as yer got that face, only I got there first.  Now run in,
Ruthie, there's a good girl.  I'm busy.  I'm also married."  The girl
retired discomfited.

Later in the day the mistress of No. 129 emerged on her way to pay a
call.  Seeing Bindle she paused, lifted her lorgnettes, and surveyed
him with cold insolence.

"Is Mrs. Rogers moving?" she asked.

"No, mum," replied Bindle, "we're goin' to take the furniture for a
ride in the park."

"You're an extremely impertinent fellow," was the retort.  "I shall
report you to your employers."

"Please don't do that, mum; think o' me 'ungry wives an' child."

There was no further endeavour to enquire into the destination of Mrs.
Rogers's possessions.

By four o'clock the last load had left--a miscellaneous mass of
oddments that puzzled Bindle how he was ever going to sort them out.

It was past seven before Bindle and his men had finished their work.
The miscellaneous things, obviously the accumulation of many years, had
presented problems; but Bindle had overcome them by putting in the
coal-cellar everything that he could not crowd in a lumber room at the
top of the house, or distribute through the rest of the rooms.

"Seemed to have moved in an 'urry," coughed Wilkes; "I never see sich a
lot of truck in all me life."

"P'r'aps they owed the rent," suggested Huggles.

"'Uggles, 'Uggles," remonstrated Bindle with a grin, "I'm surprised at
you.  'Cos your family 'as shot the moon for years--'Uggles, I'm
pained."

Bindle duly returned the key to the police-station, put up the vans,
and himself saw that the horses were made comfortable for the night.
Whenever in charge of a job he always made this his own particular duty.


II

At six o'clock on the following afternoon a railway omnibus drew up at
the West Kensington police-station.  In it were Mr. and Mrs.
Railton-Rogers, seven little Rogerses, a nursemaid, and what is known
in suburbia as a cook-general.

After some difficulty, Mr. Rogers, a bald-headed, thick-set man with
the fussy deportment of a Thames tug, extricated himself from his
progeny.  After repeated injunctions to it to remain quiet, he
disappeared into the police-station and a few minutes later emerged
with the key.

"Don't do that, Eustace," he called out.

Eustace was doing nothing but press a particularly stubby nose against
the window of the omnibus; but Mr. Rogers was a man who must talk if
only to keep himself in practice.  If nothing worthy of comment
presented itself, he would exclaim, apropos the slightest sound or
movement, "What's that?"

The omnibus started off again, and a few minutes later turned into
Branksome Road.  It was Nelly, the second girl, aged eleven, who made
the startling discovery.

"Mother, mother, look at our house, it's empty!" she cried excitedly.

"Nelly, be quiet," commanded Mr. Rogers from sheer habit.

"But, father, father, look, look!" she persisted, pointing in the
direction of No. 131.

Mr. Rogers looked, and looked again.  He then looked at his family as
if to assure himself of his own identity.

"Good God!  Emily," he gasped (Emily was Mrs. Rogers), "look!"

Emily looked.  She was a heavy, apathetic woman, who seemed always to
be a day in arrears of the amount of sleep necessary to her.  A
facetious relative had dubbed her "the sleeping partner."  From the
house Mrs. Rogers looked back to her husband, as if seeking her cue
from him.

"They've stolen my horse!" a howl of protest arose from Eustace, and
for once he went uncorrected.

The omnibus drew up with a groan and a squeak opposite to No. 131.  Mr.
Rogers, followed by a stream of little Rogerses, bounded out and up the
path like a comet that had outstripped its tail.  He opened the door
with almost incredible quickness, entered and rushed in and out of the
rooms like a lost dog seeking his master.  He then darted up the
stairs, the seven little Rogerses streaming after him.  When he had
reached the top floor and had thoroughly assured himself that
everywhere there was a void of desolation, he uttered a howl of
despair, and, forgetful of the tail of young Rogerses toiling after him
in vain, turned, and tearing down the stairs collided with Nelly, who,
losing her balance, fell back on Eustace, who in turn lost his balance,
and amidst wails and yells comet and tail tumbled down the stairs and
lay in a heap on the first-floor landing.

Mr. Rogers was the first to disentangle himself from the struggling
mass.

"Stop it, you little beasts!  Stop it!" he shouted.

They stopped it, gazing in wonderment at their father as he once more
dashed down the stairs.  At the door Mr. Rogers found Mrs. Rogers and
the two maids talking to the next-door neighbour, Mrs. Clark, who was
there with her maid, whom Bindle had addressed as "Ruthie."  As he
approached, Mrs. Clark was saying:

"I thought there must be something wrong, the man looked such a
desperate fellow."

"Then why didn't you inform the police?" snapped Mr. Rogers.

"It was not my business, Mr. Rogers," replied Mrs. Clark with dignity.
Then, turning to Mrs. Rogers and the maid, she added, "The way that man
spoke to my maid was a scandal, and he was most insolent to me also."

"Get in, you little devils, get in!" Mr. Rogers roared.

"Albert dear, don't!" expostulated Mrs. Rogers with unaccustomed
temerity.

"In you get!" he repeated.  And the family and maids were packed once
more into the omnibus.

"Back to the police-station," shouted Mr. Rogers.

Just as the vehicle was on the move Mrs. Clark came down to the gate
and called out, "I told Archie to follow the van on his bicycle in case
anything was wrong.  He's got the address, but I have forgotten it.  He
will be back in a minute.  It was somewhere in Chiswick."

"Send him round to the police-station," shouted Mr. Rogers.  "For God's
sake hurry, this is not a funeral," he almost shrieked to the driver.

"No, an' I ain't no bloomin' nigger neither," growled the man.

Neighbours were at their gates, scenting trouble in the way that
neighbours will.  All sorts of rumours were afloat, the prevalent idea
being that Mr. Rogers was a bankrupt, and that his furniture had been
taken by the representatives of his creditors.

At the police-station Mr. Rogers once more bounced from the omnibus,
the little Rogerses climbing out after him.  This time the nursemaid
joined the crowd in the charge-room.

"I have been robbed," almost sobbed Mr. Rogers; then with unconscious
irony added, "Everything has gone, except my wife and children."

The sergeant was conventionally sympathetic, but officially reticent.
A man should be sent to No. 131 Branksome Road, to institute enquiries.

"What the devil is the use of that?" shouted Mr. Rogers.  "I want my
furniture, and it's not in my house.  What are the police for?"

"I want my horse!"  Eustace set up another howl.  He, together with his
six brothers and sisters and the nursemaid, were now ranged behind
their father, looking with large-eyed wonder at the sergeant.

"Look at these!"  Mr. Rogers turned and with a sweep of his hand
indicated his progeny as if he were a barrister calling attention to a
row of exhibits.  "What am I to do with them to-night?"

There was another howl from Eustace, and a whimper from Muriel the
youngest.

The sergeant had not been on duty when Bindle called for the key, but
he had heard it said that the key of No. 131 had been handed to the
bearer of a letter from a firm of furniture-removers.  This he
explained to Mr. Rogers, regretting that apparently the letter itself
had been put aside.  On Monday the whole matter should be threshed out
and the guilty brought to justice.

He gave the assurance rather as an official formality than as the
result of any inherent conviction of his own.

"Monday?" almost shrieked Mr. Rogers.  "What am I to do until Monday?"

The sergeant suggested that perhaps the neighbours might extend
hospitality.

"Who is going to take in eleven people?" shouted Mr. Rogers.  "We shall
all starve!"

At this announcement the Rogerses, who were all sturdy trenchermen, set
up such a howl as to bring Mrs. Rogers and the other maid out of the
omnibus.

Just at that moment Archie Clark, a precocious youth of twelve, rode up
full of importance and information.  He pushed his way through the mass
of Rogerses, and without preliminary shouted, "33 Lebanon Avenue,
Chiswick; that's where the van went."

The sergeant picked up a pen and began to take down the address.

"Get into the bus, get in, all of you," shouted Mr. Rogers.  He saw
that little help was to be obtained from the police.  In the hurry of
getting off, somehow or other and in spite of his protests, Archie
Clark was bundled into the omnibus and Eustace was left howling on the
pavement beside Archie's bicycle.


III

Bindle had discovered at the office that the new occupants of 33
Lebanon Avenue expected to reach Chiswick about six o'clock on the day
following the move.  It was nearly a quarter to seven before their taxi
hove in sight.  Bindle sauntered up the avenue whistling, and arrived
just in time to see Mr. Daniel Granger open the front door with a key,
enter, and suddenly bolt out very hurriedly and examine the number;
then he looked in again and called to Mrs. Granger, a thin little
woman, with round black eyes and a porcelain smile that deceived no one.

Mrs. Granger tripped up the path and followed the burly form of her
husband through the door.  By this time Bindle had reached the gate.

"Want a 'and wi' the luggage, mate?" he enquired of the taxi-driver.

"Maybe yes, maybe no," was the reply.

Bindle examined the man curiously.

"You ain't a-goin' to take no risks, ole card, I can see that," he
retorted with a grin.  "I 'ad a mate once 'oo said that to the parson
at 'is weddin', an' 'is missis is never quite sure whether she's a
respectable woman or ought to be a widder.  You'll 'ave to get out of
that 'abit; it's as bad as stutterin'."

The taxi-driver grinned.

"I knew a cove," began Bindle, "wot----"

At that moment Mr. Railton-Rogers's omnibus drew up behind the taxi,
and before it had stopped Mr. Rogers bounced out, followed by his
entire suite of wife, progeny, and retainers.  Into the house he
dashed, and as he recognised his lares and penates he uttered a howl of
triumph.

The hall was dark, and he fell over a chair, which brought Mr. and Mrs.
Granger out from the dining-room.

"So I've caught you," shouted Mr. Rogers triumphantly, looking up
defiantly at the burly form of Mr. Granger, whose good-humoured blue
eyes wore a puzzled expression.  "You're a thief, a daylight-robber;
but I've caught you."

Mr. Rogers planted himself in the doorway.  Mr. and Mrs. Granger looked
at each other in mute wonder.

"Will you kindly get out of the way?" requested Mr. Granger.

"No, I won't.  I've caught you and I mean to keep you," said Mr.
Rogers, making a clutch at Mr. Granger's coat-sleeve.  Then something
happened, and Mr. Rogers found himself sitting in the hall, and Mr. and
Mrs. Granger were walking down the path towards their taxi.

"Police! fetch a policeman!  Don't let them escape," yelled Mr. Rogers,
and the cry was taken up by his family and retainers.  Mr. Rogers
picked himself up and dashed down the path shouting to the drivers of
the taxi and the omnibus that, if they aided and abetted the criminals
to escape, their doom was certain.

"'As anythin' 'appened, sir?" enquired the taxi-driver civilly.

Bindle had retired behind a tree in order to avoid being seen.  He had
recognised Archie Clark.

"He's stolen my furniture----'

"Shut up, you silly little ass," interrupted Mr. Granger.  Then turning
to the taxi-driver he said, "Perhaps you had better fetch a policeman."

"Better fetch a Black Maria to take all this lot," muttered Bindle.

The neighbours were now arriving in strong force, and Mr. Rogers
cheerfully told his tale to all who would listen; but none could make
much of what he was saying.  At the end of a few minutes the taxi
returned with a policeman sitting beside the driver.  As soon as he
alighted Mr. Rogers dashed up to him.

"I give this man and woman in charge for stealing my furniture.  You'd
better keep the driver, too.  He's probably an accomplice."

The policeman turned to Mr. Granger.  "Have you anything to say, sir?"

"I think we had better all go to the police-station," remarked Mr.
Granger coolly.  "There has been a mistake, and the wrong furniture has
been moved into my house."

The last Bindle saw of the protagonists in this domestic drama, of
which he was the sole author, was the Railton-Rogerses being bundled
into their omnibus by Mr. Railton-Rogers, and Mr. and Mrs. Granger
calmly entering their taxi, on the front seat of which sat the
policeman.  He turned reluctantly away, regretful that he was not to
see the last act.


The epilogue took place on the following Monday, when early in the
morning Bindle was called into the manager's office and summarily
dismissed.

Returning to Fenton Street earlier than usual he was greeted by Mrs.
Bindle with the old familiar words:

"Lorst yer job?"

"Yes," said Bindle, as he removed his coat; "but it was worth it:"

Mrs. Bindle stared.




CHAPTER XVIII

BINDLE ASSISTS IN AN ELOPEMENT


I

When Bindle announced to Mrs. Bindle that he intended to enlist in
Kitchener's Army, she opened upon him the floodgates of her wrath.

"You never was a proper husband," she snapped viciously.  "You've
neglected me ever since we was married.  Now you want to go away and
get killed.  What shall I do then?  What would become of me?"

"Well," said Bindle slowly, "yer would become wot they calls a widder.
Then yer could marry into the chapel and you an' 'im 'ud go to 'eaven
'and in 'and."

Mrs. Bindle snorted and started to rake out the kitchen fire.  Whenever
Mrs. Bindle reached the apex of her wrath, an attack upon the kitchen
fire was inevitable.  Suddenly she would conceive the idea that it was
not burning as it should burn, and she would rake and dab and poke
until at last forced to relight it.

Bindle watched her with interest.

"The next worst thing to bein' Mrs. Bindle's 'usband," he muttered, "is
to be a bloomin' kitchen fire with 'er at the other end of a poker."
Then aloud he said, "You'd get an allowance while I'm away, and a
pension when I dies o' killin' too many Germans."

Mrs. Bindle paused.  "How much?" she asked practically.

"Oh, about a pound a week," said Bindle recklessly.

Mrs. Bindle put down the poker and proceeded to wash up.  She seemed
for ever washing up or sweeping.  Presently she enquired:

"When are you goin'?"

"Well," said Bindle, "I thought of trottin' round to the War Office
this afternoon and breakin' the news.  It'll sort o' buck 'em up to
know that I'm comin'."

Mrs. Bindle raised no further objections.

It was Saturday afternoon, and Bindle's time was his own.  He joined
the queue outside the Recruiting Station in the Fulham Road and
patiently waited his turn, incidentally helping to pass the time of
those around him by his pungent remarks.

"Lord!" he remarked, "we're a funny sort o' crowd to beat the Germans.
Look at us: we ain't got a chest among the 'ole bloomin' lot."

At length Bindle stood before the recruiting officer, cap in hand and a
happy look on his face.

"Name?" enquired the officer.

"Joseph Bindle."

"Age?"

"Wot's the age limit?" enquired Bindle cautiously.

"Thirty-eight."

"Then put me down as thirty-seven and a 'arf," he replied.

The officer looked up quickly.  There was just the suspicion of a smile
in his eyes.  This was the type of man he liked.

After a few more questions he was turned over to the doctor, who
ordered him to strip.

After a very rapid examination the doctor remarked:

"You won't do--varicose veins."

"Beg pardon, sir?" said Bindle.

"Varicose veins," said the doctor.

"An' 'oo's 'e when 'e's at 'ome?" enquired Bindle.

"You have got varicose veins in the legs and therefore you cannot
enlist."  The doctor was tired and impatient.

"But ain't you got veins in your legs?" enquired Bindle.  "Why can't I
be a soldier 'cos I got various veins in me legs?"

"You couldn't stand the marching," was the reply.

"Oh, couldn't I?  That's all you know about it.  You should see me
'oppin' in an' out of 'ouses carrying pianners an' sofas.  I want to
enlist."  Bindle was dogged.

The doctor relented somewhat.  "It's no good, my man.  We cannot take
you.  I'm sorry."

"But," said Bindle, "couldn't yer put me in somethin' wot sits on an
'orse, or 'angs on be'ind?  I want to go."

"It's no good; I cannot pass you."

"Couldn't yer make me even a 'ighlander?  Me legs ain't too thin for
that, are they?"

"It's no good!"

"Are they catchin'?" enquired Bindle, with some eagerness in his voice.

"Are what catching?"

"Various veins."

"No."

"Just my luck," grumbled Bindle, "a-gettin' somethink wot I can't 'and
on."

The doctor laughed.

Finding that nothing could break down the doctor's relentless refusal,
Bindle reluctantly departed.

During the week following he made application at several other
recruiting offices, but always with the same result.

"Nothin' doin'," he mumbled.  "Nothin' left for me but to become a
bloomin' slop.  I must do somethink."  And he entered the local
police-station.

"What is it?" enquired the officer in charge.

"Come to gi' meself up," said Bindle with a grin.  "Goin' to be a
special constable and run in all me dear ole pals."

He found the interrogations here far less severe.  Certain particulars
were asked of him.  Finally he was told that he would hear in due
course whether or no his services were accepted.

After an interval of about a week Bindle was sworn in.  A few days
later he called once more at the police-station for his equipment.  As
the truncheon, armlet, and whistle were handed to him, he eyed the
articles dubiously, then looking up at the officer, enquired:

"This all I got to wear?  It don't seem decent."

He was told that he would wear his ordinary clothes, and would be
expected to report himself for duty at a certain hour on the following
Monday.

On his way home he called in on his brother-in-law and, to the delight
of Smith and the errand boy, solemnly informed Mr. Hearty of the step
he had taken.

"Now look 'ere, 'Earty," he remarked, "you got to be pretty bloomin'
careful what yer up to, or yer'll get run in.  Yer'd look sort o' tasty
with me a-shovin' of yer from be'ind in me new uniform, a bit in each
'and and the rest round me arm.  S' long! an' don't yer forget it.  No
late nights.  No carryin's on with the choir."  And Bindle winked
knowingly at Smith and the boy.

Bindle's popularity among his brother special constables was
instantaneous and complete.  They were for the most part sent out in
pairs.  "'untin' in couples," Bindle called it.  The man who got Bindle
as a companion considered himself lucky.

If Bindle saw a pair of lovers saying good-night, he would go up to
them gravely and demand what they were doing, and warn them as to their
proper course of conduct.

"There ain't goin' to be no kissin' on my beat," he would remark, "only
wot I does meself.  Why ain't you in the army, young feller?"

He never lost an opportunity of indulging his sense of the ludicrous,
and he soon became known to many of those whose property it was his
duty to protect.  From servant-girls he came in for many dainties, and
it was not long before he learnt that the solitary special gets more
attention from the other sex than the one who "'unts in couples."  As a
consequence Bindle became an adept at losing his fellow-constable.  "I
can lose a special quicker than most chaps can lose a flea," he
remarked once to Mrs. Bindle.

One night, about half-past nine, when on duty alone on Putney Hill,
Bindle saw a man slip down one of the turnings on the left-hand side,
as if desirous of avoiding observation.  A moment after he heard a soft
whistle.  Grasping his truncheon in his right hand, Bindle slid into
the shadow of the high wall surrounding a large house.  A few minutes
later he heard another whistle.

"'Ullo," he muttered, "shouldn't be surprised if there wasn't somethink
on.  Now, Joe B., for the V.C. or a pauper's grave."

Creeping stealthily along under the shadow of the wall, he came close
up to the man without being observed.  Just as he gave vent to the
third whistle Bindle caught him by the arm.

"Now then, young feller, wot's all this about?  I 'eard you.  'Oly
Angels!" Bindle exclaimed in astonishment, "where did you spring from,
sir?"

It was Dick Little.

"I was just a-goin' to run you in for a burglar."

"Well, you wouldn't have been far wrong," replied Little.  "I'm bent on
theft."

"Right-oh," said Bindle.  "I'm with yer, special or no special.  What
are yer stealin', if it ain't a rude question?"

"A girl," Little replied.

Bindle whistled significantly.

In the course of the next five minutes Dick Little explained that he
was in love with a girl whose people disapproved of him, and she was
being kept almost a prisoner in the house in question.  At night he was
sometimes able to get a few words with her after dinner, she mounting a
ladder and talking to him from the top of the garden wall.

"One of these nights," Little concluded, "we're going to make a bolt
for it.  By Jove!" he suddenly broke off.  "You're the very man; you'll
help, of course."

"'Elp?" said Bindle; "o' course I'll 'elp.  If yer want to be made
un'appy that's your affair.  If yer wants me to 'elp to make yer
un'appy, that's my affair."

At this moment there was a faint whistle from farther down the road.

"I must be off," said Little.  "Come round and see me on Sunday, and
I'll tell you all about it."

The next Sunday night Bindle heard the whole story.  Dick Little was
desperately in love with Ethel Knob-Kerrick, the daughter of Lady
Knob-Kerrick, whose discomfiture at the Barton Bridge Temperance Fête
had been due to his tampering with the lemonade.  Lady Knob-Kerrick had
come to know of clandestine meetings, and henceforth her daughter had
been practically a prisoner, never being allowed out of her mother's
sight or that of Miss Strint, who, although in sympathy with the
lovers, was too much afraid of Lady Knob-Kerrick to render them any
assistance.

"So I'm going to bolt with her," said Dick Little.

"And very nice too," remarked Bindle, as he gazed admiringly at the
photograph of an extremely pretty brunette with expressive eyes and a
tilted chin.

"Funny things, women," continued Bindle.  "Yer think yer've got a
bloomin' peach, when squash! and there is only the stone and a little
juice left in yer 'and.  Funny things, women!  She'll probably nag yer
into an asylum or the Blue Boar or----"

"Shut up, Bindle!"  There was a hard note in Dick Little's voice.

"All right, sir, all right," said Bindle patiently.  "I'd 'ave said the
same meself when I was a-courtin' me little red-'eaded blossom.  Funny
things, women!

"If it ain't rude, sir," Bindle continued after a pause, "'ave yer got
an 'ome ready?  'Cos when yer get a bird yer sort o' got to get a cage,
an' if that cage ain't gold, wi' bits o' gold sort o' lyin' about,
well, there'll be some feathers flyin', an' they won't be 'ers.  A
woman wot ain't got money makes a man moult pretty quick.  Yer'll
excuse me, sir, but I'm an old warrior at this 'ere game."

"I've bought a practice in Chelsea, and besides I've got between three
and four hundred a year," replied Little.

"H'm," said Bindle, "may keep 'er in scent an' shoe-strings.  I suppose
you're set on doin' it?"

"Absolutely."

"Well, I'll 'elp yer; but it's a pity, it's always a pity when a nice
chap like you gets balmy on a bit o' skirt."

"Right-oh!" said Little.  "I knew you would."

A week later Bindle, wearing what he called his "uniform," met Dick
Little by appointment outside Lady Knob-Kerrick's house on Putney Hill.
Miss Kerrick had arranged to be ready at 9.30.  Dick Little had
borrowed, through his brother, Guggers' Rolls-Royce, which, according
to the owner, would "gug-gug-go anywhere and do anything."

Guggers volunteered to drive himself.  At 9.30 the car slid silently
down the road at the side of Lady Knob-Kerrick's house.  It was a dark
night and the lights were hooded.  Under the shade of a huge elm, and
drawn close up against the house, no one could distinguish the car from
the surrounding shadow.

A short ladder was placed in the tonneau and reared up against the
wall.  Bindle and Little both mounted the wall and waited what to
Little seemed hours.  It was nearly ten o'clock before a slight sound
on the gravel announced the approach of someone.  A subdued whistle
from Dick Little produced a tremulous answer.  Not a word was spoken.
Presently a scraping against the wall announced the placing of the
ladder from inside the garden, and a moment later a voice whispered:

"Is that you, Dick?"

"Yes, Ettie," was the reply.  "Quick.  I've got a friend here."

"It's all right, miss," whispered Bindle; "I'll catch hold of one arm
and Mr. Little will do ditto with the other, and 'fore you can wink
you'll be over.  You ain't the screamin' sort, are yer?" he enquired
anxiously.

A little laugh answered him.

"Now then, look slippy, in case the old gal--sorry, miss, yer
mother--smells a rat."

It was a hot, soundless night.  The atmosphere hung round them like a
heavy garment saturated with moisture.  Every sound seemed to be
magnified.  As he finished speaking, Bindle's quick ear detected a
footstep inside the garden.  Bending down he whispered to Guggers:

"Start the car, sir, there's someone comin'.  Come along, miss," he
added.

"Ethel!"  Three hearts gave a great leap at the sound of a harsh,
uncompromising voice from almost beneath them.

"Ethel, where are you?  You will catch your death of cold walking about
the garden at this time of night.  Come in at once!"

It was Lady Knob-Kerrick.  There was no mistaking her disapproving
voice.  Bindle grinned as he recollected the inglorious figure she had
cut at the Temperance Fête.

"Ethel, where are you?"  The voice cut sharply through the still air.

"Steady, sir," whispered Bindle to Dick Little, who had lifted Miss
Kerrick off the wall.

"I'll keep the ole gal jawin'.  Tell ole Spit-and-Speak to get off
quietly."

"Strint!"  Lady Knob-Kerrick's voice again rang out.  "Strint, where
are you?"

Bindle heard the sound of feet hastening down the path.  He was
standing on the wall, grasping with one hand the top of the ladder used
by Miss Kerrick, which reached some three feet above the top of the
wall.  He had taken the precaution of putting his uniform in his pocket
"in case I gets nabbed," as he explained to Dick Little.

Bindle heard a suppressed "gug-gug" from Guggers, on whose head Miss
Kerrick had alighted.  He wondered why Guggers had not started the
engine.

Somewhere below him he heard Lady Knob-Kerrick moving about.  Would she
find the ladder?  If she did, how was he to cover the retreat of the
car?  He was conscious of enjoying to the full the excitement of the
situation.

"Where is Miss Knob-Kerrick?"  Lady Knob-Kerrick always insisted on the
"Knob."  Her voice came from out of the darkness immediately below
where Bindle was standing.

"I'm afraid----" began another voice, that of Miss Strint, when
suddenly several things seemed to happen at once.  There was a
triumphant "Ah!" from Lady Knob-Kerrick, as she found the ladder and
wrenched it from the wall, a yell from Bindle as he lost his balance,
and an agonised shriek from Miss Strint, as she was swept from her feet
by what she thought was a bomb, but what in reality was the ladder,
which fell, pinning her to the earth.

"Help!  Help!!  Murder!!!" shrieked Lady Knob-Kerrick, until Bindle
reached the ground, marvelling at the softness of the substance on
which he had fallen, when her cries ceased suddenly and only the moans
of Miss Strint were to be heard by the servants, who rushed from the
house to the rescue.

On the other side of the wall the two occupants of the car held their
breath, but Guggers saw in the sudden pandemonium that for which he had
been waiting, and the Rolls-Royce leapt forward.

"Stop, Guggers," whispered Dick Little, leaning forward, "we can't
leave him like this."

"Gug-gug-go to blazes!  This is my car," was the response, as they tore
up Putney Hill on the way to Walton, where Miss Kerrick was to spend
the night with Guggers' sister.


II

Five minutes later Bindle stood in Lady Knob-Kerrick's drawing-room
with Thomas, the footman, holding one arm, and Wilton, the butler, the
other.  On Wilton's face was an expression of disgust at having
temporarily to usurp the duties of the police.

Lady Knob-Kerrick had made enquiries of the servants, and was now
convinced that her daughter had either eloped or been abducted.  Her
hair was disarranged, there was dirt upon her face, and leaves and
mould upon her gown; but of these she was unconscious, and she regarded
Bindle with an expression of grim triumph.  At least she had captured
one of the ruffians, probably the worst.

Bindle himself was quite self-possessed.  All he desired was to gain
time so that the fugitives might get well beyond the possibility of
capture.

"Now, look here, Calves," he remarked, obliquely examining the
footman's gorgeous raiment, "if you pinch I kick.  See?"

Apprehensive of an attack upon his white silk legs, Thomas moved away
as far as he could, holding Bindle at arm's-length.

"I have had the police telephoned for," said Lady Knob-Kerrick grimly.
"Now, where is Miss Knob-Kerrick?"

"You may search me, mum," replied Bindle imperturbably.

"You were with the villains who abducted her," snapped Lady
Knob-Kerrick.

"Who wot, mum?"

"Abducted her."

"I never done that to any woman.  I kissed a few, but I never gone
further.  Mrs. Bindle (my name's Bindle--Joseph Bindle) is sort o'
particular."

"Then you refuse to confess?"  Lady Knob-Kerrick glared at Bindle
through her lorgnettes.

"I ain't got nothin' to confess, mum; leastways nothin' I'd like to say
'fore a lady.  Look 'ere, Dicky-Bird, if you pinch my arm I'll break
your bloomin' shins."  This last remark was addressed to Wilton, whom
Bindle examined with insulting deliberation.  "Must cost a bit to keep
yer in clean dickies, ole son," he remarked.  Wilton writhed.  Bindle
suddenly caught sight of Miss Strint slipping into the room, looking
very ill and obviously in a state bordering on hysteria.

"'Ello, miss, you do look bad.  I hope you ain't 'urt."  There was
solicitude in Bindle's voice.

"I am very upset and----"

"Strint!" admonished Lady Knob-Kerrick, "please be silent.  How dare
you converse with this man?"

"Now look 'ere, mum, I ain't said much so far, but you're goin' to get
into a bit of a mess if yer ain't careful.  If you'll just call orf
Dicky-Bird and Calves, I'll show yer wot an' 'oo I am.  I'm a special
constable, I am, and you done a fine thing to-night.  P'r'aps yer know
the law, p'r'aps yer don't.  But this is a case for 'eavy damages.
Now, Dicky-Bird, leggo!"

With a dexterous movement Bindle wrenched his arm free from Wilton's
clutch, and drew his truncheon, which he flourished under the nose of
his astonished captors.  Thomas, fearing an attack, released the arm he
held and retreated precipitately to the door.

"Thomas!  Wilton!" shrieked Lady Knob-Kerrick, "hold him, don't let him
escape."

"I'll keep the door, m' lady," said Thomas, his hand on the handle, his
attitude that of a man solicitous as to his own safety rather than
desirous of preventing another's escape.

With great deliberation Bindle produced his armlet and whistle.

"This 'ere, mum," holding the articles of equipment for Lady
Knob-Kerrick's inspection, "is me summer uniform, but as the nights is
a little bit chilly I added a pair o' trousers and a few other things."

Miss Strint tittered, and then, appalled at her own temerity, coughed
violently.

Lady Knob-Kerrick turned upon her accustomed victim.

"Strint," she cried, glaring through her lorgnettes, "have you no sense
of decency?"

"She's got an awful cough, mum.  Yer'd better leave 'er alone," and
Bindle grinned in a manner that Lady Knob-Kerrick decided was
intolerable.

"I want you to explain, mum, wot you mean by letting Calves and
Dicky-Bird keep a special constable from the execution of 'is duty."

Lady Knob-Kerrick looked uncertainly from Bindle to Wilton, then to
Miss Strint, and then back again to Bindle.

"You were with the ruffians who have taken my daughter," she said.

"Well, mum, that's where you're sort o' wrong.  I've collected white
mice and rabbits and once I had a special sort of jumpin' fleas, but I
never collected daughters.  Besides, there's Mrs. Bindle.  She's a bit
funny when it comes to another woman.  What she'll say when she gets to
know that yer've had me 'eld 'ere, a-givin' of me the glad eye through
them two 'oles on a stick--I tell yer, mum, I jest daren't think."

"How dare you, you vulgar fellow!"  Lady Knob-Kerrick had seen the
ghost of a smile flit across Thomas's face.  "Hold your tongue!"

"I can't, mum.  Lived too long wi' Mrs. B.  I'm sort o' surprised at
you 'oldin' me 'ere like this.  It's like kissin' a girl against her
will."

At this juncture there was a loud ringing at the outer bell.

"Go!" said Lady Knob-Kerrick, addressing Thomas.

"Now then, 'op it, Calves," added Bindle, as he resumed his armlet.

A minute later an inspector of police entered.  He bowed to Lady
Knob-Kerrick and looked towards Bindle, who saluted with a suddenness
so dramatic as to cause both Wilton and Thomas involuntarily to start
back.

"This man has been----"  Lady Knob-Kerrick paused, at a loss to
formulate the charge.

"Says I've run off with 'er daughter--me!  'Oly Moses!  If Mrs. Bindle
only knew!"  And Bindle smiled so broadly and so joyously that even the
official face of the inspector relaxed.

"What is the complaint, my lady?" the inspector enquired, producing his
note-book.

"Someone has abducted my daughter and--and--we--I got this man."

Lady Knob-Kerrick was hesitant, and clearly not very sure of her ground.

She explained how she had gone into the garden in search of Miss
Knob-Kerrick, had come across the ladder, and how in moving it Bindle
had come crashing down upon her, and had been captured.

The inspector turned to Bindle, whom he knew as a special constable.

"This 'ere's goin' to be a serious business for 'er," Bindle indicated
Lady Knob-Kerrick with his thumb.  "I 'eard a whistle, then see a man
on the wall and another in a motor-car.  'What-oh!' says I, 'burglars
or German spies.  If I blows me whistle orf they goes.'  I climbs up a
tree and drops on to the wall, crawls along, then I 'ears a young
woman's voice.  I jest got to the top of the ladder, frightened as a
goat I was, when somebody gives it a tug.  Over I tumbles on wot I
thought was a air-cushion, but it was 'er."  Bindle bowed elaborately
to Lady Knob-Kerrick, who flushed scarlet.  "She nabs me when I was
goin' to nab the lot of 'em.  I might 'a got the V.C.!  Silly things,
women."  Bindle spat the words out with supreme disgust.

The inspector turned to Lady Knob-Kerrick.

"Do you wish to charge this special constable?"

"Yes, that's it," put in Bindle.  "Jest let 'er charge me.  She's got
to do it now since she's 'eld me 'ere, and I'm out for damages.
There's also goin' to be some damage done to Dicky-Bird and Calves
before I've finished."  And Bindle looked fiercely from one to the
other.

Lady Knob-Kerrick motioned the inspector to the other end of the room,
where she held a whispered conversation with him.  Presently they
returned to Bindle.  The inspector said with official coldness:

"There seems to have been a mistake, and her ladyship offers you a
sovereign in compensation."

"Oh, she does, does she?" remarked Bindle.  "Well, jest tell 'er
bloomin' ladysillyship wi' Joseph Bindle's compliments that there's
nothin' doin'.  A quid might 'ave been enough for a ordinary slop, but
I'm a special sort o' slop and, like a special train, I 'as to be paid
for.  She can stump up a fiver or----"

The inspector looked nonplussed.  He was not quite sure what authority
he had over a special constable.  A further whispered conversation
followed, and eventually Lady Knob-Kerrick left the room and a few
minutes later returned with five one-pound notes, which she handed to
the inspector without a word, and he in turn passed them on to Bindle.

"Well," Bindle remarked, "I must be off.  'Ope you'll find your
daughter, mum; and as for you, Dicky-Bird and Calves, we'll probably
meet again.  S'long."  And he departed.




CHAPTER XIX

THE SCARLET HORSE COTERIE

One of the indirect results of Millie's romance was the foregathering
each Friday night under the hospitable roof of the Scarlet Horse of a
number of congenial and convivial spirits.  It was Bindle's practice to
spend the two hours during which Millie and Charlie Dixon were at the
cinema in drinking a pint of beer at the Scarlet Horse, and exchanging
ideas with anyone who showed himself conversationally inclined.

In time Bindle's friends and acquaintance got to know of this practice,
and it became their custom to drop into "the 'Orse to 'ear ole Joe tell
the tale."

Ginger would come over from Chiswick, Huggles from West Kensington,
Wilkes from Hammersmith, and one man regularly made the journey from
Tottenham Court Road.

At first they had met in the public bar, but later, through the
diplomacy of Bindle, who had explained to the proprietor that "yer gets
more thirsty in a little place than wot yer does in a big 'un, 'cause
it's 'otter," they had been granted the use of a small room.

Sometimes the proprietor himself would join the company.

One September evening, having handed over Millie to her cavalier with
strict injunctions to be outside the Cinema at ten sharp, Bindle turned
his own steps towards the Scarlet Horse.  As he entered he was greeted
with that cordiality to which he had become accustomed.  Calling for a
pint of beer, he seated himself beside a rough-looking labourer known
as "Ruddy" Bill, on account of the extreme picturesqueness and
sustained directness of his language.

On Bindle's arrival Bill had been delivering himself of an opinion,
accompanied by a string of explicatory oaths and obscenities that
obviously embarrassed his hearers, rough though they were.  Waiting his
opportunity, Bindle presently remarked quite casually:

"Words such as 'damn' and ''ell,' like beer and tobacco, was sent to
sort of 'elp us along, 'specially them wot is married.  Where'd I be
wi' Mrs. B.  if I 'adn't 'ell an' a few other things to fall back on?
No!" he continued after a moment's pause, "I don't 'old wi' swearin'."
He turned and looked at Ruddy Bill as if seeking confirmation of his
view.

"'Oo the blinkin' 'ell arst wot you 'old wiv?" demanded Bill
truculently, and with much adornment of language.

Bindle proceeded deliberately to light his pipe as if he had not heard
the question; then, when it was drawing to his entire satisfaction, he
raised his eyes and gazed at Bill over the lighted match.

"No one, ole sport.  Yer always gets the good things for nothink, like
twins an' lodgers."

Bill resented the laugh that greeted Bindle's reply, and proceeded to
pour forth his views on those given to "shovin' in their decorated
snouts."

When he had exhausted his eloquence Bindle remarked good-humouredly.

"It 'ud take a bucketful of carbolic an' a damn big brush to clean the
dirty words out o' your mouth, Sweet William."

Bill growled out further obscenities.

"I ain't religious," continued Bindle, "I don't suppose none of us is.
I don't seem to see 'Uggles wi' wings, and Ginger ain't exactly fitted
for sittin' on a cloud a-pullin' 'arp strings; but if yer want to come
'ere an' listen to my talk and Wilkes's cough, Sweet William, you got
to clean up that talk o' yours a bit.  Ain't that so, mates?"

The rest of the company made it abundantly clear that Bindle had
expressed its sentiments, and Ruddy Bill subsided into _sotto voce_
blasphemies.

During these Friday nights at the Scarlet Horse, many subjects came up
for discussion; marriage, politics, religion were dealt with in turn,
but it was impossible to keep the talk away from the War, to which time
after time it returned with the same persistency that the needle of the
compass flutters back to the north.

"I'd sooner be like 'Earty than a German," Bindle once remarked with
decision.  "If they'd only come over 'ere I'd get a smack at 'em, spite
of me various veins."

His forced inaction was to Bindle a tragedy of which he seldom spoke;
but when he did it was generally to the point, and more than one man
enlisted as a direct result of Bindle's views on the war.

For "the slacker" he had one question.  "You got various veins?" he
would enquire; and on hearing that the man had not, he would say, "Then
yer got to join."

To those who suggested that he himself should enlist, he made only one
reply, "You get me in the army, ole sport, an' I'll give yer anythink I
got.  Gawd strike me dead if I won't."  And impressed by Bindle's
earnestness, almost without exception, the questioner had the grace to
feel ashamed of himself.

One man had cast some doubt upon the genuineness of Bindle's refusal by
the authorities.

"Come along, then," yelled Bindle in a passion; "come along an' see."
And seizing the astonished man by the arm he marched him round to the
nearest recruiting station, followed by those who had heard the
challenge.  Before the sceptic had recovered his self-possession he
found himself a soldier and Bindle once more convicted of "various
veins."

"Well, Ginger," remarked Bindle pleasantly, after the pause that
followed Ruddy Bill's discomfiture, "wot 'ave yer been doin' that yer
can talk about without 'urtin' Sweet William's ears.  Any noos?"

"I been an' joined," grumbled Ginger, as if he had committed one of the
Seven Deadly Sins.

"Ginger," said Bindle approvingly, "the next pint yer 'as yer drinks
wi' me, see?"  After a pause Bindle continued, "Now yer got to kill
three Germans, Ginger, as a sort of apology for 'avin' three babies.
That'll square things."

"I don't want to kill Germans," growled Ginger.

"Then why did yer do it?" asked Wilkes.

"It's all through that rosy song.  Blimey!  I get fair sick of it."

Bindle laughed joyously.

"I thought you was goin' to 'ammer the next cove as said it, Ging.  Why
didn't yer?" he remarked.

"I couldn't 'ammer the 'ole yard, could I?  They used to sing it every
time I come in, so I 'listed."

There was a general laugh at this.

"Well, Ginger, you been an' done the right thing.  'Uggles may laugh,
Wilkes may show that 'e ain't got no teeth, and Bill may pump up dirty
words, but you done right.  I wish," he added reflectively, "I 'adn't
various veins.  I'd look tasty in khaki a-tryin' to keep 'Uggles from
runnin' away.  'Ow about you, Weary?"  The last remark was addressed to
a heavy-looking man who seemed half-asleep.

"I'm goin' to wait an' see," the man replied, with a strange movement
of his lips, which his intimates were able to recognise as a smile.

"You're one of them bloomin' wait-an'-see radicals.  One o' these days
they'll see things wot they won't wait for."

"If yer wait an' see," remarked Wilkes, "yer don't get married, an'
that saves a lot of trouble."  He trailed off into a cough.  Wilkes was
always coughing.

"Yes," said Bindle reflectively; "it also saves yer explainin' 'ow it
'appened.  I'm glad you woke up, Wilkie.

"Marriage is a funny thing," continued Bindle, meditatively filling his
pipe.  "I seen it quite change men, sometimes for better, sometimes for
worse, sometimes neither one thing nor the other.  There was a mate o'
mine wot got married and it ruined 'im.

"'E was a rare sport; used to back 'orses and wink at women and get
drunk; yes, 'e used to do everythink wot a decent man ought to do.
Then he took up with a gal an' married 'er, an' she started a-dressin'
'im up so that all 'is mates used to laugh when they met 'im.

"Last time I saw 'im 'e was wearing a white weskit, a black coat, and a
pale-blue tie and top 'at.  'E saw me comin' and tried to look the
other way, but I crossed over, and takin' off me cap bowed to 'em both,
and 'e raised 'is 'at, and then I watched 'im after 'e'd passed, and 'e
couldn't get it on right again.  'E fidgeted about with the bloomin'
thing until 'e was out o' sight.  No, yer 'as to be born to a top 'at,
just as yer 'ave to be born to an 'ump, like a camel."

"Women ain't wot they was."  The remark came from a small man with grey
side-whiskers who, as soon as he had spoken and attracted to himself
the attention of the company, fidgeted as if he regretted his temerity.

"Wot jer know about the ornamental Jezebels?" Ruddy Bill struck in.

"'Ullo! you woke up too, Sweet William?" grinned Bindle.  "You're
right, Tom Cave," he continued, turning to the man who had spoken.
"They ain't, an' it's all through the fashions."

"'Ow's that?  Fashions don't make women, it's them as makes the
fashions," ventured Huggles.

"Fashions is funny things, 'Uggles.  When I was a boy women was a bit
shy about their ankles, an' now they sort o' takes a pride in 'em.  I
given up goin' in toobes," Bindle added with a grin.  "I get 'ot all
over.  Them short skirts, oh! naughty! naughty!"  And he put his
fingers before his eyes.

"It's women everywhere now.  They're on buses, drivin' vans, shovin'
barrers--yer can't get away from 'em," said Wilkes resentfully.

"That's all right for you, Wilkie, saves yer lookin' for trouble, ole
son," said Bindle.  "'Ope they 'aven't been chasin' yer too much,
Charlie; you ain't no sprinter."

"Wot's the war about, that's wot I want to know?  Why are we fightin'
the Germans?" Ginger broke in irrelevantly, looking round him
aggressively as if for someone to attack.

No one seemed desirous of answering Ginger's question.  All looked
instinctively towards Bindle, who, to gain time, began filling his pipe
with great care and deliberation.

"You got war on the brain, Ginger," remarked Ruddy Bill.

"Wot's the war about, Joe?" asked Wilkes.

"About the silliest thing I ever 'eard of," said Bindle.  "Everybody
says they wanted peace, on'y they was attacked.  As far as I can see,
Germany wanted wot she calls a place in the sun; she was sort o'
gettin' chilly in the shade, so she says to the Alleys, 'Sun or blazes,
the choice is wi' you, mates,' an' the Alleys says, 'Blazes it is, ole
sport,' an' starts a-firin' back, an' that's 'ow it all come about."

"Why don't they arbitrate?" enquired the little man with the grey
whiskers.

Bindle looked at him pitifully.  "Cave, yer surprise me.  If 'Uggles
'ere wanted your trousers and started a-pullin' away at the legs, would
yer say, 'We'll arbitrate'?  No, yer'd fetch 'im one on the jaw."

"Wot's arbitration?" demanded Ruddy Bill.

"Arbitration, Sweet William, is somethin' you're always advisin' other
people to do, but never does yerself.  Now, if you an' Ginger both
wanted to stand me my next pint, an' was goin' to fight about it,
someone might say 'arbitrate'--that is to say, let another cove decide
wot 'adn't no interest in the matter, an' p'r'aps he'd get the beer."

"Then why don't they arbitrate instead of blowin' each other to bits?"
demanded a whiskered man known as Ted.

"Because war comes about by someone wantin' wot ain't 'is," replied
Bindle oracularly.  "Wot 'ud you say if I said I wanted yer watch?"

"I'd see yer to blinkin' nowhere, fust," was the reply.

"Well, that's jest wot the gents say wot we votes for, on'y they says
it prettier than wot you can, ole son."  Bindle grinned contentedly at
his exposition of international ethics.

"We're fightin' just because Germany went for Belgium," remarked a
heavy-bearded man who had not previously spoken.  "It ain't our scrap,
an' we been let in for it by a lot o' stutterin' toffs wot us
workin'-men sends to Parliament.  It makes me fair sick, an' beer goin'
up like 'ell."

There was a murmur that showed the man had voiced the general opinion
of the room.

"Wot jer got to say to that, Joe?" demanded Ruddy Bill aggressively.

"I got a good deal to say to it, Sweet William," remarked Bindle,
removing his pipe from his mouth and speaking with great deliberation.
"I got quite a lot to say.  Supposin' I see a couple of big chaps
a-'ammerin' your missis an' kickin' yer kids about, an' I says, 'It
ain't nothink to do wi' me,' an' takes no notice.  Would any of yer
ever want to speak to me again?"

Bindle looked round him enquiringly, but there was no reply.

"Well, that's wot Germany's done to Belgium an' the other place, an'
that's why we chipped in.  Look 'ere, mates, if any of yer thinks yer
can live thinkin' only o' yerselves, yer mistaken.  We got a fine ole
country and a good king, an' we can tell a archbishop to go to 'ell if
we want to wi'out gettin' pinched for it; an' when yer got all them
things--an' there ain't no other country wot 'as--then it's worth
'avin' a scrap now an' then to keep 'em."

"But we should 'ave 'ad 'em all the same; Germany didn't want to fight
us," protested the whiskered man.

"Ain't you a silly ole 'uggins! an' you wi' all that 'air on yer face
ought to be a man.  The Germans 'ud 'ave come for us next, when they'd
beaten the others.  Besides, yer don't always fight for beer an' baccy;
sometimes yer does it because somethink's bein' 'urt wot can't 'it
back.  Got it, Whiskers?"

The man addressed as Whiskers subsided, finding that opinion had veered
round to Bindle's point of view.

"An' when's it goin' to end?" enquired Huggles in an aggrieved tone.

"It'll end, my lovely 'Uggles, jest as soon as a fight 'tween you an'
me 'ud end--when one of us 'ad 'ad enough."

"That's goin' to be the Germans," almost shouted Ginger.

"Well, up to this evenin' I wasn't sure, Ginger, but now I 'ear you're
a-goin', o' course I'm puttin' me money on the ole lion."

"I don't 'old wi' war," grumbled Ginger.  "S' 'elp me if I do."

"Well, mates," Bindle remarked, as he rose to go, the hands of the
clock on the mantelpiece pointing to ten minutes to ten, "I'm due at
the War Office, an' they don't like to be kep' waitin'.  Lord! 'ow the
Kayser must 'ate me!  So long."  And he set out to meet and escort
Millie home.




CHAPTER XX

MILLIE LEAVES HOME

Bindle's visits to "the pictures" with Millie had become a weekly
institution.  Mr. Hearty had made several tentative attempts to
interfere.  He had mentioned more than once the evil influence of the
cinema, and had called attention to paragraphs in the newspapers and
the remarks of magistrates in support of his view.  Bindle had,
however, been firm, inspired by the fear and appeal he saw in Millie's
eyes.

"Look 'ere, 'Earty," he would say, "I'm an ole warrior.  You an' my
Little Rosebud at 'ome 'ave 'elped me, an' there ain't a known sin that
I can't dodge.  Millie's all right wi' me.  When they kiss I 'olds me
'at over 'er eyes."

Millie would blush, and Mr. Hearty, who was never equal to Bindle's
persistent good-humour and racy speech, would allow the matter to drop.

A great change had come over Millie.  She was gayer and brighter, her
laugh was more frequently heard, and she seemed to be developing
opinions of her own.  In her dress she was more extravagant, although
always neat and refined.

Mr. Hearty became conscious of the change.  His eyes were often upon
his daughter, and his slow-moving brain at work seeking for some
explanation of this new phenomenon.

Had he been told of the happiness that had come into her life, he would
have been unable to understand it working so great a change.  He would
also have disapproved, for to his narrow faith any happiness that
sprang from association of the opposite sexes, however innocent, was
the happiness of sin.

In a passive way Mrs. Hearty also had noticed the change.  She had even
gone to the length of remarking upon it to Bindle.

"She's growin' into a woman, Martha," had been Bindle's diagnosis; "an'
an uncommon pretty woman, too.  I s'pose she gets it from 'Earty," he
added, whereat Mrs. Hearty had subsided into waves of mirth.

At first Bindle had been in some doubt as to the wisdom of his action
in encouraging the romance between the young lovers; but as it
progressed and he saw their devotion and Millie's happiness, all
scruples vanished.

"I may be a silly ole fool," he muttered to himself one night as he
left the radiant Milly at her door, "but I'm 'elpin' them two kids to
be 'appy, an' after all, 'appiness is the thing wot matters.  If yer
can get it through lookin' into a gal's eyes, it's better'n gettin' it
through lookin' into a beer-glass.  I'd sooner be 'appy than drunk any
day."

Unconsciously Bindle had stumbled upon a great truth.

At first Millie's "evenin' out," as Bindle called it, was spent at a
local cinema, Bindle conveniently disappearing until ten o'clock, when
he would take Millie home.  Later, however, walks and rides on
omnibuses took the place of "the pictures" in the evening's
entertainment.

Several times Millie and Charlie Dixon begged Bindle to accompany them,
but he had always resolutely refused.

"Look 'ere, young feller, yer wouldn't 'ave a look in wi' Millie if I
was there.  Ain't that so, Millikins?"  And Millie would hang on to
Bindle's arm with both hands and give a little jump of joy.

One evening when Bindle arrived at the cinema at a few minutes to ten,
he saw Charlie Dixon there alone, obviously in a state of great
excitement.

"'Ullo, Charlie!" said Bindle, "wot's up?  Where's Millikins?"  There
was alarm in Bindle's voice.

"We met Mr. Hearty in Putney High Street and he's taken her home.  I
don't know what to do.  I'm----"

Bindle whistled.  "'Oly Angels, 'ere's a go," he exclaimed.  "'Ere,
come along, young feller, we mustn't stop a-jawin' 'ere."  Hurriedly
they left the cinema together.

"'Ow long ago was this?" enquired Bindle, as they hurried along in the
direction of Fulham High Street.

"About ten minutes.  What shall we do?"  Charlie Dixon's voice shook
with anxiety.

"Well," said Bindle, "yer'd better go 'ome.  I'm goin' to 'ave it out
with 'Earty."  There was a grim note in Bindle's voice.  "I ain't
a-goin' to leave our little Millikins to 'im."

Charlie Dixon felt that at that moment he could have hugged Bindle.
All he could do was to grip his arm.  His voice had deserted him.

"'E learnt that from Millikins," murmured Bindle to himself as they
sped along.  Outside the Grand Theatre they parted, Charlie Dixon
vowing that he would wait there until Bindle came to him.

"There's goin' to be an 'ell of a row," muttered Bindle, as he rang the
Heartys' bell.

He was admitted by a tearful Mrs. Hearty.

"Oh, Joe, I'm so glad," she wheezed.  "Go up; I'll----"

Bindle raced up the stairs to the Heartys' sitting-room.  As he opened
the door Mr. Hearty was standing by the mantelpiece, his face white and
set and his lips slightly drawn from his discoloured teeth.  Facing him
stood Millie, with flushed face and rebellious eyes.  At the sight of
Bindle she uttered a cry and ran to him, threw her arms round his neck,
choking with sobs.

Bindle soothed her as if she had been a child.

"Oh, don't leave me, Uncle Joe, promise, promise!" She looked at Bindle
with fear in her eyes.  "Promise, darling Uncle Joe."

"I won't leave the little Millikins," said Bindle reassuringly.  "I
won't leave yer until yer say I can go, see?"

Disengaging Millie's arms from his neck, Bindle placed her gently on
the sofa, and Mrs. Hearty, who had just entered the room breathing
laboriously, sat down beside the half-fainting girl, looking at her
helplessly.

"Don't cry, Millie dear," Mrs. Hearty wheezed, although there were no
signs of tears, as she stroked one of Millie's hands.

All this time Mr. Hearty had been looking on in a dazed way, conscious
that the control of the situation was slipping from his grasp.  He was
roused by Bindle's voice.

"Now then, 'Earty, wot the 'ell do yer mean by this?"

It was a new Bindle that Mr. Hearty saw before him.  The humorous twist
had gone from his mouth, the light of fun was no longer in his eyes.
Mr. Hearty saw a stern, resolute man who was demanding of him an
explanation.

During the last quarter of an hour he had pictured a scene vastly
different from this.  He was to be the outraged father indignantly
demanding an explanation from a crestfallen and humbled Bindle.
Through his mind there had passed the thought that the enemy had been
delivered into his hands.  He had felt like a righteous and triumphant
Israel; and now everything had turned out so differently.

"Ain't you got nothink to say?"  Mr. Hearty was awakened from his
meditation by Bindle's angry enquiry.  Even Mrs. Hearty looked up,
mildly surprised at the unaccustomed note in Bindle's voice.

"I have a lot to say," replied Mr. Hearty with an obvious effort, "and
I want an explanation from you, Joseph."  Instinctively Mr. Hearty felt
that his tone was too mild for that of the outraged father, and he
added in what he meant to be a stern voice, "and I--I demand an
explanation before you leave this house to-night."

"There ain't no fear o' my leavin' before yer want me to," replied
Bindle grimly.  "Don't you worry yer saintly soul about that, 'Earty.
Now, what is it yer want to know?"

Mr. Hearty stroked his chin.  "I--I----"  How he disliked scenes!
"I--I want to know why Millie was alone with a strange young man in
Putney High Street this evening, when she was supposed to be with you?"

Mr. Hearty strove to be dignified and at the same time appropriately
stern and uncompromising; but always with a dash of Christian
forbearance.

"That all?" enquired Bindle contemptuously.  "That won't take long.
She was there 'cause she wants to be 'appy, wot she's got a right to
be.  If yer was a man, 'Earty, instead of an 'oly greengrocer, yer'd
understan' wi'out tellin'.  If yer was to listen to the 'ymns o' the
birds instead o' them 'ungry-lookin' young women in the choir" (Mr.
Hearty flushed) "yer'd know why Millie was wi' Charlie Dixon to-night.

"She wants love, 'Earty, an' she don't get it at 'ome.  She wants
'appiness, an' you never even smile at 'er--not as that 'ud 'elp 'er
much," he added, with a flash of the old Bindle.  "Yer want to shove
Gawd down 'er throat all the time, and it ain't the real Gawd 'oo was
kind to children."

"She's my daughter and must obey me."  There was determination in Mr.
Hearty's voice.  He felt he must assert his parental authority.

"Now, listen," said Bindle; and he proceeded to tell the whole story of
Millie's romance and the part he had played in it.  "Now, 'ave yer any
think to complain about?" he enquired in conclusion.

"I forbid her ever to see him again," almost shouted Mr. Hearty.  The
story he had just listened to had roused him to anger.  It had outraged
his sense of the proprieties that his daughter should be walking the
streets alone with a young man she had met casually in a train!  That
his own brother-in-law should be a party to such a disgraceful and
sordid intrigue made matters worse.  Being a religious man Mr. Hearty
thought the worst.

He looked at Bindle.  There was no suggestion of shame or contrition in
his bearing.

"I will have no such goings-on in my family," fumed Mr. Hearty, "and in
future I'll thank you, Joseph, not to interfere."  Mr. Hearty's face
was very set and hard.  "What would Mr. Sopley say if he knew?"

"That," remarked Bindle calmly, "would depend on 'ow long ago it was
since 'is mind was cleaned."

"Anyhow, I won't have it."  And Mr. Hearty drew himself up to his full
height.

"Wot jer goin' to do then?" enquired Bindle with ominous calm.

Mr. Hearty was nonplussed.  What was he going to do?  What could he do?
To gain time he asked a question.

"Does Elizabeth know about this?" he demanded.

"Not 'er," replied Bindle contemptuously.  "She'd like to stop the
birds a-matin', if she could."  Suddenly he grinned.  "An' there
wouldn't be no lamb to go wi' your mint, 'Earty, if she 'ad 'er way."

"I won't have it," fumed Mr. Hearty again.  "I've been very patient,
but--but--I won't have it."

"Yer can't stop a runaway 'orse with a notice-board," remarked Bindle
with unconscious philosophy.

"I'll thank you not to interfere in my affairs, Joseph.  As I say, I've
been very patient and, and----"  Mr. Hearty, whose face was deathly
white, broke off.  "If," he continued, "if this--er--fellow has ruined
Millie, it's your fault."

Bindle made a movement towards his brother-in-law; his hand was raised
and there was murder smouldering in his eyes, when something seemed to
rush between them.  Both men fell back a step and Mr. Hearty found
himself looking into a pair of blazing eyes that he failed to recognise
as those of his daughter.

"How dare you, father!" she panted, her young breast heaving, her face
flaming, and her eyes burning with suppressed fury.  Bindle regarded
her with amazement and awe.

"How dare you say that of Charlie and me?  I hope God will punish you
for it.  You have always made me unhappy.  You have never allowed me
the pleasures other girls have.  If it hadn't been for mother I should
have run away long ago.  It is fathers like you that make girls bad.  I
won't have you blame Uncle Joe.  I--I wish he was my father."

Mr. Hearty watched her as if fascinated.  Her tempest of passion had
overwhelmed him.  Bindle looked from Hearty to Mrs. Hearty, who was
sitting crying softly and comfortably to herself.

Millie looked round her in a dazed way, then produced from somewhere a
handkerchief, with which she proceeded to wipe her eyes.  With great
deliberation she walked over to where her hat and jacket lay upon a
chair and proceeded to put them on.

"Millie, I forbid you to go out."  Mr. Hearty was making a last
despairing effort.

Millie flashed a look of scorn at him.

"I am going away," she said quietly; "and I will never speak to you
again until you take back those words."

Bindle looked from father to daughter.  He felt helpless, as if he were
the onlooker at some impending tragedy which he was powerless to avert.

"You are not of age, Millie, and you must obey your father."  There was
a more persuasive note in Mr. Hearty's voice.

"I am going away, father," said Millie in the same colourless voice;
"and if you try and prevent me----"  She did not finish.

"Good-night, mother."  Millie went over to her mother and kissed her
tenderly.  Mrs. Hearty continued to cry.  She looked appealingly at
Bindle, who nodded reassuringly.

"Look 'ere, 'Earty," whispered Bindle, "you're up agin' somethin' yer
don't understand, I don't rightly understand it meself.  Better let me
take Millie 'ome to Lizzie, she'll look after 'er all right."

For a moment Mr. Hearty hesitated; then with a glance at Millie's
resolute face, he said:

"Millie, your uncle will take you to your Aunt Elizabeth."

"That is where I was going, father," she replied quietly, and Mr.
Hearty felt that he had been badly beaten, and by his own daughter,
who, until this evening, he had always regarded as a child.

Millie leant heavily on Bindle's arm as they walked down the High
Street.  She did not notice that they were going in the opposite
direction from the Bindles' house.  Suddenly her eyes grew wide with
wonder; coming towards them was Charlie Dixon, whose half-hour had been
spent in torture.

"Millie!"

She smiled up into his face wearily.

"Now, young feller," said Bindle with forced cheerfulness, "don't arst
questions.  Millie's comin' 'ome wi' me.  It'll be all right, but," and
he whispered to Charlie Dixon, "it's been----"  Bindle completed his
sentence with a look.  "Now then, Millikins, say good-night to Charlie
an' we'll be off."

Like a tired child she lifted her face to be kissed, a flicker of a
smile playing round her moist lips.

"Good-night, Charlie," she whispered.  "I'm so tired."

"I shall always be grateful, Mr. Bindle," said Charlie Dixon, grasping
Bindle's hand.

"Leggo, you young fool," yelled Bindle.  Charlie Dixon dropped his hand
as if it had been electrified.  "Next time you're grateful," remarked
Bindle, as he ruefully examined his hand, "you put it down on paper; it
won't 'urt so much."

And they parted.


"That you, Bindle?"  Bindle recognised the familiar tones as he groped
along the passage of his house with Millie.

Mrs. Bindle looked up from the supper table as they entered the kitchen.

"I brought Millie 'ome, Lizzie," said Bindle simply.  "There's been
trouble.  'Earty's gone mad.  I'll tell yer all about it later."

One look told Mrs. Bindle everything she wanted to know.  All the
baulked motherhood in her nature rose up as she took the girl in her
arms, and led her upstairs.

Bindle sat down to his supper.  Several times Mrs. Bindle entered the
room to fetch various things, but no word passed between them.  Bindle
had been taken by surprise.  He would have been even more surprised had
he seen the expression on Mrs. Bindle's face as she coaxed and crooned
over the girl lying on the bed upstairs.

When she finally returned to the kitchen, Bindle, his supper finished,
had made up his mind to a great sacrifice.  For a few seconds they
stood regarding each other.  It was Bindle who broke the silence.

"Lizzie," he said awkwardly, "I'll go to chapel on Sunday if you like."

And then for no reason at all Mrs. Bindle sat down at the table, buried
her face in her arms and sobbed convulsively.

"I wonder wot I done now," muttered Bindle, as he regarded Mrs.
Bindle's heaving shoulders with a puzzled expression on his face.
"Funny things, women."




CHAPTER XXI

CONCLUSION

"So 'Earty comes round in the mornin' an' says 'e's sorry, an'
Millikins she be'aves jest like a little princess, 'oldin' 'er 'ead as
'igh as 'igh, an' agrees to go back, an' everybody lives 'appy ever
after, everybody 'cept me.  Since that night Mrs. B. 'as given me
pickles.  I don't understand it," he added in a puzzled way; "seems as
if she's sort of 'uffy cause she dripped a bit."

"I think that is what it must be," remarked Mrs. Dick Little.  "You
must be gentle with her."

"Gentle!  You don't know Mrs. B., miss, I mean mum.  When Mrs. B.'s at
one end o' the broom an' you're within range o' the dust she raises,
it's nippy you got to be, not gentle."

Mrs. Little laughed.

It was a fortnight after the events at Mr. Hearty's house that had led
up to Millie's leaving home, and Bindle was seated with the Littles in
their new flat in Chelsea Palace Mansions.

"Yes," continued Bindle, after a pause, "them two love-birds is
engaged, and Charlie Dixon's enlisted, an' Millie's as proud as an 'en
wot's laid an egg.  'Earty's a different man; but it's Mrs. B. wot does
me.  She'd take the edge orf a chisel.  Gentle!  I'd like to meet the
man 'oo'd got the pluck to try it on wi' Mrs. B."  And Bindle laughed
good-humouredly.

"An' to think," continued Bindle, looking quizzically from Dick Little
to his wife, "to think that I 'elped you two to get tied up."

Mrs. Little laughed gaily, and Bindle drank deeply of a large glass of
ale at his elbow.

"I'm afraid you're a terrible misogynist, Mr. Bindle," said Mrs. Little.

"A wot, mum?" queried Bindle, with corrugated brow.

"A woman-hater," explained Little.

"There you're wrong, mum, if yer'll allow me to say so; I don' 'ate
women."

"But," persisted Mrs. Little, "you are always suggesting how happy the
world would be without us."

Bindle removed his cigar from his mouth and, bending forward towards
Mrs. Little, remarked impressively, "You got 'old o' the wrong end o'
the stick, mum.  I ain't got nothink to say agin women.  I likes the
ladies."

"But," broke in Little, "didn't you solemnly warn me, Bindle?  Now own
up."

"That's quite correct," replied Bindle, with undisturbed composure.  "I
did as I would like a mate to do by me, I jest put up me 'and like an'
said, 'Dangerous crossin' 'ere,' same as they do for motors."

"But you say you are not a woman-hater; I don't understand."  Mrs.
Little screwed up her pretty face in what Little regarded as a most
provoking manner.

"Well, mum, you're sort o' mixin' up women an' wives.  I ain't got
nothink to say against women provided they don't marry yer.  When they
do they seems to change."  Bindle paused, then with unconscious
philosophy added, "P'r'aps it's because they find out all about yer."

The silence that ensued was broken by Bindle.  "I s'pose," he said
thoughtfully, "I'd sort o' miss my little bit of 'eaven if anythink wos
to 'appen to 'er.  Fancy goin' 'ome an' no one there to say, 'Got a
job?'"

There was a note in Bindle's voice which constrained Little and his
wife to silence.  After a minute's pause he added:

"It can't be all 'oney livin' with an 'eathen such as me."

For fully five minutes no one spoke.  It was again Bindle who broke the
silence.

"It was you, sir, o' course, wot played that little game on 'Earty?"

"What, the Theodore Hook joke?" enquired Little.

Bindle looked puzzled.  "I mean the dogs an' 'ousekeepers an' orphans.
I felt sorry for 'Earty then."  And Bindle laughed in spite of himself.

"It was a cruel jest, whoever played it," said Mrs. Little with
decision; and looking meaningly at her husband she added, "I hope I
shall never know who did it, or I should speak very bluntly."

Dick Little looked uncomfortable, and Bindle created a diversion by
rising.

"Well, I must be 'oppin' it," he remarked genially.  "I enjoyed this
little talk."

Dick Little preceded him into the hall.  Bindle stepped back into the
room.

"Miss--mum, I mean," he said awkwardly, "you ain't inclined to be
religious, are yer?"

There was such earnestness in his voice that Mrs. Little checked the
laugh that was upon her lips.

"No, Mr. Bindle, I'm afraid I'm not at all a good person."

Bindle heaved a sigh of relief.  "Then 'e's got a sportin' chance," he
muttered, half to himself.  "Good-night, mum."  And Bindle closed the
door behind him.

"Well, Ettie," said Dick Little, as he re-entered the room, "what do
you think of J. B.?  Not a bad sort of fellow, eh?"

"Dick, I think he's a perfect dear."

And Dick Little expressed entire concurrence with his wife's view in a
way that young husbands have.




THE END





BOOKS BY

HERBERT JENKINS


BINDLE

Some chapters In the Life of Joseph Bindle.  Of the popular edition,
190,000 copies have already been called for.


THE NIGHT CLUB

Further episodes in the career of Bindle.  No less than 37,000 copies
of the ordinary edition were called for within a few weeks of
publication.


ADVENTURES OF BINDLE

A second edition, completing 60,000 copies, was ordered before the book
appeared.  Further episodes in the career of J.B.


MRS. BINDLE

Some incidents from the life of the Bindles.  Among other things, It
narrates how Mrs. Bindle encountered a bull and what happened to the
man who destroyed her geraniums.


THE BINDLES ON THE ROCKS

Another volume of stories of the Bindle ménage.  Poor old Bindle loses
his job and hard times are endured, but his good friends rally round
when his plight is discovered.


JOHN DENE OF TORONTO

A comedy of Whitehall which struck a new note and achieved a new
success.


MALCOLM SAGE, DETECTIVE

Some chapters from the records of the Malcolm Sage Bureau.  A book of
thrills and mystery.


PATRICIA BRENT, SPINSTER

A comedy of our own times that stirred five continents to laughter.  It
has been translated into Swedish, Dutch, Norwegian, etc.


THE RAIN-GIRL

A romance of to-day, telling how Richard Hereford threw up a post at
the Foreign Office and set out to tramp the roads as a vagabond.


THE RETURN OF ALFRED

A comedy of mis-identification by which a man is proclaimed a returned
prodigal.



HERBERT JENKINS'

SPLENDID LIBRARY


MODERN BALLROOM DANCING (Illustrated)

By VICTOR SILVESTER, Winner of the World's Dancing Championship,
1922-1923.

How to dance the Flat Charleston, Tango, Foxtrot, and other ballroom
dances.


SILVESTER'S SENSIBLE COOKERY

BY ELIZABETH SILVESTER, late Principal of the Leamington School of
Cookery.

A common-sense cookery book for the inextravagant.


PETER PETTINGER

BY W. RILEY, Author of _Windyridge_.

A powerful story of the relation of Capital and Labour.


THE LAKE OF ENCHANTMENT

BY ROSEMARY REES, Author of _April's Sowing_.

A romance of New Zealand.

_Newcastle Chronicle_.--"A delightful love story."


ASHMORLANDS

BY WINIFRED BOGGS, Author of _The Sale of Lady Daventry_.

_Manchester Evening News_.--"A powerful story told with skill."


KIRSTIE-TO-ME

BY MAUDE CRAWFORD, Author of _Peggy up in Arms_.

A delightful love story.


KIM RUFF

BY SIDNEY COWING, Author of _Held to Ransom_.

The romance of a man of grit.

_East Anglian Daily News_.--"The story is excellent."


THE ISLE OF HATE

BY ALAN DARE, Author of _Killigrew_.

A thrilling story.

_Morning Post_.--"A story well worth reading."


THE STOLEN SCAR

BY GRET LANE, Author of _The Saga of Sally Bird_.

A gripping adventure story.

_East Anglian Daily Times_.--"A tale which will make a strong appeal."


DIGBY'S MIRACLE

BY FRED E. WYNNE, Author of _A Mediterranean Mystery_.

A clever story of faith, fraud and foolishness.

_The Times_.--"The plot is ingenious and the characters are definite
and amusing."



BY THE SAME AUTHOR


THE NIGHT CLUB

Further Episodes in the Career of Bindle


ADVENTURES OF BINDLE

A New Volume of Bindle's Experiences


JOHN DENE OF TORONTO

A Comedy of Whitehall


MALCOLM SAGE, DETECTIVE

Some Pages from the Records of the Malcolm Sage Detective Bureau


MRS. BINDLE

Some Incidents from the Domestic Life of the Bindles


THE BINDLES ON THE ROCKS

Another volume of stories of the Bindles' Ménage


PATRICIA BRENT, SPINSTER

THE RAIN GIRL

THE RETURN OF ALFRED











End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Bindle, by Herbert Jenkins

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BINDLE ***

***** This file should be named 33261-8.txt or 33261-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/3/2/6/33261/

Produced by Al Haines

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
