The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Boats of the "Glen Carrig", by William
Hope Hodgson


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net








Title: The Boats of the "Glen Carrig"

Author: William Hope Hodgson

Release Date: December 29, 2003  [eBook #10542]

Language: English


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOATS OF THE "GLEN CARRIG"***


E-text prepared by Suzanne Shell, Project Gutenberg Beginners Projects,
Mary Meehan, and the Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team



THE BOATS OF THE 'GLEN CARRIG'

Being an account of their Adventures in the Strange places of the Earth,
after the foundering of the good ship _Glen Carrig_ through striking upon
a hidden rock in the unknown seas to the Southward. As told by John
Winterstraw, Gent., to his son James Winterstraw, in the year 1757, and
by him committed very properly and legibly to manuscript.

By William Hope Hodgson

1907






_Madre Mia_

People may say thou art no longer young
  And yet, to me, thy youth was yesterday,
    A yesterday that seems
    Still mingled with my dreams.
Ah! how the years have o'er thee flung
  Their soft mantilla, grey.

And e'en to them thou art not over old;
  How could'st thou be! Thy hair
    Hast scarcely lost its deep old glorious dark:
    Thy face is scarcely lined. No mark
Destroys its calm serenity. Like gold
  Of evening light, when winds scarce stir,
  The soul-light of thy face is pure as prayer.




I

The Land of Lonesomeness


Now we had been five days in the boats, and in all this time made no
discovering of land. Then upon the morning of the sixth day came there a
cry from the bo'sun, who had the command of the lifeboat, that there was
something which might be land afar upon our larboard bow; but it was very
low lying, and none could tell whether it was land or but a morning
cloud. Yet, because there was the beginning of hope within our hearts, we
pulled wearily towards it, and thus, in about an hour, discovered it to
be indeed the coast of some flat country.

Then, it might be a little after the hour of midday, we had come so close
to it that we could distinguish with ease what manner of land lay beyond
the shore, and thus we found it to be of an abominable flatness, desolate
beyond all that I could have imagined. Here and there it appeared to be
covered with clumps of queer vegetation; though whether they were small
trees or great bushes, I had no means of telling; but this I know, that
they were like unto nothing which ever I had set eyes upon before.

So much as this I gathered as we pulled slowly along the coast, seeking
an opening whereby we could pass inward to the land; but a weary time
passed or ere we came upon that which we sought. Yet, in the end, we
found it--a slimy-banked creek, which proved to be the estuary of a great
river, though we spoke of it always as a creek. Into this we entered, and
proceeded at no great pace upwards along its winding course; and as we
made forward, we scanned the low banks upon each side, perchance there
might be some spot where we could make to land; but we found none--the
banks being composed of a vile mud which gave us no encouragement to
venture rashly upon them.

Now, having taken the boat something over a mile up the great creek, we
came upon the first of that vegetation which I had chanced to notice from
the sea, and here, being within some score yards of it, we were the
better able to study it. Thus I found that it was indeed composed largely
of a sort of tree, very low and stunted, and having what might be
described as an unwholesome look about it. The branches of this tree, I
perceived to be the cause of my inability to recognize it from a bush,
until I had come close upon it; for they grew thin and smooth through all
their length, and hung towards the earth; being weighted thereto by a
single, large cabbage-like plant which seemed to sprout from the extreme
tip of each.

Presently, having passed beyond this clump of the vegetation, and the
banks of the river remaining very low, I stood me upon a thwart, by which
means I was enabled to scan the surrounding country. This I discovered,
so far as my sight could penetrate, to be pierced in all directions with
innumerable creeks and pools, some of these latter being very great of
extent; and, as I have before made mention, everywhere the country was
low set--as it might be a great plain of mud; so that it gave me a sense
of dreariness to look out upon it. It may be, all unconsciously, that my
spirit was put in awe by the extreme silence of all the country around;
for in all that waste I could see no living thing, neither bird nor
vegetable, save it be the stunted trees, which, indeed, grew in clumps
here and there over all the land, so much as I could see.

This silence, when I grew fully aware of it was the more uncanny; for my
memory told me that never before had I come upon a country which
contained so much quietness. Nothing moved across my vision--not even a
lone bird soared up against the dull sky; and, for my hearing, not so
much as the cry of a sea-bird came to me--no! nor the croak of a frog,
nor the plash of a fish. It was as though we had come upon the Country of
Silence, which some have called the Land of Lonesomeness.

Now three hours had passed whilst we ceased not to labor at the oars, and
we could no more see the sea; yet no place fit for our feet had come to
view, for everywhere the mud, grey and black, surrounded us--encompassing
us veritably by a slimy wilderness. And so we were fain to pull on, in
the hope that we might come ultimately to firm ground.

Then, a little before sundown, we halted upon our oars, and made a scant
meal from a portion of our remaining provisions; and as we ate, I could
see the sun sinking away over the wastes, and I had some slight diversion
in watching the grotesque shadows which it cast from the trees into the
water upon our larboard side; for we had come to a pause opposite a clump
of the vegetation. It was at this time, as I remember, that it was borne
in upon me afresh how very silent was the land; and that this was not due
to my imagination, I remarked that the men both in our own and in the
bo'sun's boat, seemed uneasy because of it; for none spoke save in
undertones, as though they had fear of breaking it.

And it was at this time, when I was awed by so much solitude, that there
came the first telling of life in all that wilderness. I heard it first
in the far distance, away inland--a curious, low, sobbing note it was,
and the rise and the fall of it was like to the sobbing of a lonesome
wind through a great forest. Yet was there no wind. Then, in a moment, it
had died, and the silence of the land was awesome by reason of the
contrast. And I looked about me at the men, both in the boat in which I
was and that which the bo'sun commanded; and not one was there but held
himself in a posture of listening. In this wise a minute of quietness
passed, and then one of the men gave out a laugh, born of the nervousness
which had taken him.

The bo'sun muttered to him to hush, and, in the same moment, there came
again the plaint of that wild sobbing. And abruptly it sounded away on
our right, and immediately was caught up, as it were, and echoed back
from some place beyond us afar up the creek. At that, I got me upon a
thwart, intending to take another look over the country about us; but
the banks of the creek had become higher; moreover the vegetation acted
as a screen, even had my stature and elevation enabled me to overlook
the banks.

And so, after a little while, the crying died away, and there was another
silence. Then, as we sat each one harking for what might next befall,
George, the youngest 'prentice boy, who had his seat beside me, plucked
me by the sleeve, inquiring in a troubled voice whether I had any
knowledge of that which the crying might portend; but I shook my head,
telling him that I had no knowing beyond his own; though, for his
comfort, I said that it might be the wind. Yet, at that, he shook his
head; for indeed, it was plain that it could not be by such agency, for
there was a stark calm.

Now, I had scarce made an end of my remark, when again the sad crying
was upon us. It appeared to come from far up the creek, and from far down
the creek, and from inland and the land between us and the sea. It filled
the evening air with its doleful wailing, and I remarked that there was
in it a curious sobbing, most human in its despairful crying. And so
awesome was the thing that no man of us spoke; for it seemed that we
harked to the weeping of lost souls. And then, as we waited fearfully,
the sun sank below the edge of the world, and the dusk was upon us.

And now a more extraordinary thing happened; for, as the night fell with
swift gloom, the strange wailing and crying was hushed, and another sound
stole out upon the land--a far, sullen growling. At the first, like the
crying, it came from far inland; but was caught up speedily on all sides
of us, and presently the dark was full of it. And it increased in volume,
and strange trumpetings fled across it. Then, though with slowness, it
fell away to a low, continuous growling, and in it there was that which I
can only describe as an insistent, hungry snarl. Aye! no other word of
which I have knowledge so well describes it as that--a note of _hunger_,
most awesome to the ear. And this, more than all the rest of those
incredible voicings, brought terror into my heart.

Now as I sat listening, George gripped me suddenly by the arm, declaring
in a shrill whisper that something had come among the clump of trees upon
the left-hand bank. Of the truth of this, I had immediately a proof; for
I caught the sound of a continuous rustling among them, and then a nearer
note of growling, as though a wild beast purred at my elbow. Immediately
upon this, I caught the bo'sun's voice, calling in a low tone to Josh,
the eldest 'prentice, who had the charge of our boat, to come alongside
of him; for he would have the boats together. Then got we out the oars
and laid the boats together in the midst of the creek; and so we watched
through the night, being full of fear, so that we kept our speech low;
that is, so low as would carry our thoughts one to the other through the
noise of the growling.

And so the hours passed, and naught happened more than I have told, save
that once, a little after midnight, the trees opposite to us seemed to be
stirred again, as though some creature, or creatures, lurked among them;
and there came, a little after that, a sound as of something stirring the
water up against the bank; but it ceased in a while and the silence fell
once more.

Thus, after a weariful time, away Eastwards the sky began to tell of the
coming of the day; and, as the light grew and strengthened, so did that
insatiable growling pass hence with the dark and the shadows. And so at
last came the day, and once more there was borne to us the sad wailing
that had preceded the night. For a certain while it lasted, rising and
falling most mournfully over the vastness of the surrounding wastes,
until the sun was risen some degrees above the horizon; after which it
began to fail, dying away in lingering echoes, most solemn to our ears.
And so it passed, and there came again the silence that had been with us
in all the daylight hours.

Now, it being day, the bo'sun bade us make such sparse breakfast as our
provender allowed; after which, having first scanned the banks to
discern if any fearful thing were visible, we took again to our oars,
and proceeded on our upward journey; for we hoped presently to come upon
a country where life had not become extinct, and where we could put foot
to honest earth. Yet, as I have made mention earlier, the vegetation,
where it grew, did flourish most luxuriantly; so that I am scarce
correct when I speak of life as being extinct in that land. For, indeed,
now I think of it, I can remember that the very mud from which it sprang
seemed veritably to have a fat, sluggish life of its own, so rich and
viscid was it.

Presently it was midday; yet was there but little change in the nature of
the surrounding wastes; though it may be that the vegetation was
something thicker, and more continuous along the banks. But the banks
were still of the same thick, clinging mud; so that nowhere could we
effect a landing; though, had we, the rest of the country beyond the
banks seemed no better.

And all the while, as we pulled, we glanced continuously from bank to
bank; and those who worked not at the oars were fain to rest a hand by
their sheath-knives; for the happenings of the past night were
continually in our minds, and we were in great fear; so that we had
turned back to the sea but that we had come so nigh to the end of our
provisions.




II

The Ship in the Creek


Then, it was nigh on to evening, we came upon a creek opening into the
greater one through the bank upon our left. We had been like to pass
it--as, indeed, we had passed many throughout the day--but that the
bo'sun, whose boat had the lead, cried out that there was some craft
lying-up, a little beyond the first bend. And, indeed, so it seemed; for
one of the masts of her--all jagged, where it had carried away--stuck up
plain to our view.

Now, having grown sick with so much lonesomeness, and being in fear of
the approaching night, we gave out something near to a cheer, which,
however, the bo'sun silenced, having no knowledge of those who might
occupy the stranger. And so, in silence, the bo'sun turned his craft
toward the creek, whereat we followed, taking heed to keep quietness, and
working the oars warily. So, in a little, we came to the shoulder of the
bend, and had plain sight of the vessel some little way beyond us. From
the distance she had no appearance of being inhabited; so that after some
small hesitation, we pulled towards her, though still being at pains to
keep silence.

The strange vessel lay against that bank of the creek which was upon our
right, and over above her was a thick clump of the stunted trees. For the
rest, she appeared to be firmly imbedded in the heavy mud, and there was
a certain look of age about her which carried to me a doleful suggestion
that we should find naught aboard of her fit for an honest stomach.

We had come to a distance of maybe some ten fathoms from her starboard
bow--for she lay with her head down towards the mouth of the little
creek--when the bo'sun bade his men to back water, the which Josh did
regarding our own boat. Then, being ready to fly if we had been in
danger, the bo'sun hailed the stranger; but got no reply, save that some
echo of his shout seemed to come back at us. And so he sung out again to
her, chance there might be some below decks who had not caught his first
hail; but, for the second time, no answer came to us, save the low
echo--naught, but that the silent trees took on a little quivering, as
though his voice had shaken them.

At that, being confident now within our minds, we laid alongside, and, in
a minute had shinned up the oars and so gained her decks. Here, save that
the glass of the skylight of the main cabin had been broken, and some
portion of the framework shattered, there was no extraordinary litter; so
that it appeared to us as though she had been no great while abandoned.

So soon as the bo'sun had made his way up from the boat, he turned aft
toward the scuttle, the rest of us following. We found the leaf of the
scuttle pulled forward to within an inch of closing, and so much effort
did it require of us to push it back, that we had immediate evidence of a
considerable time since any had gone down that way.

However, it was no great while before we were below, and here we found
the main cabin to be empty, save for the bare furnishings. From it there
opened off two state-rooms at the forrard end, and the captain's cabin in
the after part, and in all of these we found matters of clothing and
sundries such as proved that the vessel had been deserted apparently in
haste. In further proof of this we found, in a drawer in the captain's
room, a considerable quantity of loose gold, the which it was not to be
supposed would have been left by the free-will of the owner.

Of the staterooms, the one upon the starboard side gave evidence that it
had been occupied by a woman--no doubt a passenger. The other, in which
there were two bunks, had been shared, so far as we could have any
certainty, by a couple of young men; and this we gathered by observation
of various garments which were scattered carelessly about.

Yet it must not be supposed that we spent any great time in the cabins;
for we were pressed for food, and made haste--under the directing of
the bo'sun--to discover if the hulk held victuals whereby we might be
kept alive.

To this end, we removed the hatch which led down to the lazarette, and,
lighting two lamps which we had with us in the boats, went down to make a
search. And so, in a little while, we came upon two casks which the
bo'sun broke open with a hatchet. These casks were sound and tight, and
in them was ship's biscuit, very good and fit for food. At this, as may
be imagined, we felt eased in our minds, knowing that there was no
immediate fear of starvation. Following this, we found a barrel of
molasses; a cask of rum; some cases of dried fruit--these were mouldy and
scarce fit to be eaten; a cask of salt beef, another of pork; a small
barrel of vinegar; a case of brandy; two barrels of flour--one of which
proved to be damp-struck; and a bunch of tallow dips.

In a little while we had all these things up in the big cabin, so that
we might come at them the better to make choice of that which was fit for
our stomachs, and that which was otherwise. Meantime, whilst the bo'sun
overhauled these matters, Josh called a couple of the men, and went on
deck to bring up the gear from the boats, for it had been decided that we
should pass the night aboard the hulk.

When this was accomplished, Josh took a walk forward to the fo'cas'le;
but found nothing beyond two seamen's chests; a sea-bag, and some odd
gear. There were, indeed, no more than ten bunks in the place; for she
was but a small brig, and had no call for a great crowd. Yet Josh was
more than a little puzzled to know what had come to the odd chests; for
it was not to be supposed that there had been no more than two--and a
sea-bag--among ten men. But to this, at that time, he had no answer, and
so, being sharp for supper, made a return to the deck, and thence to the
main cabin.

Now while he had been gone, the bo'sun had set the men to clearing out
the main cabin; after which, he had served out two biscuits apiece all
round, and a tot of rum. To Josh, when he appeared, he gave the same,
and, in a little, we called a sort of council; being sufficiently stayed
by the food to talk.

Yet, before we came to speech, we made shift to light our pipes; for the
bo'sun had discovered a case of tobacco in the captain's cabin, and after
this we came to the consideration of our position.

We had provender, so the bo'sun calculated, to last us for the better
part of two months, and this without any great stint; but we had yet to
prove if the brig held water in her casks, for that in the creek was
brackish, even so far as we had penetrated from the sea; else we had not
been in need. To the charge of this, the bo'sun set Josh, along with two
of the men. Another, he told to take charge of the galley, so long as we
were in the hulk. But for that night, he said we had no need to do
aught; for we had sufficient of water in the boats' breakers to last us
till the morrow. And so, in a little, the dusk began to fill the cabin;
but we talked on, being greatly content with our present ease and the
good tobacco which we enjoyed.

In a little while, one of the men cried out suddenly to us to be silent,
and, in that minute, all heard it--a far, drawn-out wailing; the same
which had come to us in the evening of the first day. At that we looked
at one another through the smoke and the growing dark, and, even as we
looked, it became plainer heard, until, in a while, it was all about
us--aye! it seemed to come floating down through the broken framework of
the skylight as though some weariful, unseen thing stood and cried upon
the decks above our heads.

Now through all that crying, none moved; none, that is, save Josh and the
bo'sun, and they went up into the scuttle to see whether anything was in
sight; but they found nothing, and so came down to us; for there was no
wisdom in exposing ourselves, unarmed as we were, save for our
sheath-knives.

And so, in a little, the night crept down upon the world, and still we
sat within the dark cabin, none speaking, and knowing of the rest only by
the glows of their pipes.

All at once there came a low, muttered growl, stealing across the land;
and immediately the crying was quenched in its sullen thunder. It died
away, and there was a full minute of silence; then, once more it came,
and it was nearer and more plain to the ear. I took my pipe from my
mouth; for I had come again upon the great fear and uneasiness which the
happenings of the first night had bred in me, and the taste of the smoke
brought me no more pleasure. The muttered growl swept over our heads and
died away into the distance, and there was a sudden silence.

Then, in that quietness, came the bo'sun's voice. He was bidding us
haste every one into the captain's cabin. As we moved to obey him, he ran
to draw over the lid of the scuttle; and Josh went with him, and,
together, they had it across; though with difficulty. When we had come
into the captain's cabin, we closed and barred the door, piling two great
sea chests up against it; and so we felt near safe; for we knew that no
thing, man nor beast, could come at us there. Yet, as may be supposed, we
felt not altogether secure; for there was that in the growling which now
filled the darkness, that seemed demoniac, and we knew not what horrid
Powers were abroad.

And so through the night the growling continued, seeming to be mighty
near unto us--aye! almost over our heads, and of a loudness far
surpassing all that had come to us on the previous night; so that I
thanked the Almighty that we had come into shelter in the midst of so
much fear.




III

The Thing That Made Search


Now at times, I fell upon sleep, as did most of the others; but, for the
most part, I lay half sleeping and half waking--being unable to attain to
true sleep by reason of the everlasting growling above us in the night,
and the fear which it bred in me. Thus, it chanced that just after
midnight, I caught a sound in the main cabin beyond the door, and
immediately I was fully waked. I sat me up and listened, and so became
aware that something was fumbling about the deck of the main cabin. At
that, I got to my feet and made my way to where the bo'sun lay, meaning
to waken him, if he slept; but he caught me by the ankle, as I stooped to
shake him, and whispered to me to keep silence; for he too had been aware
of that strange noise of something fumbling beyond in the big cabin.

In a little, we crept both of us so close to the door as the chests
would allow, and there we crouched, listening; but could not tell what
manner of thing it might be which produced so strange a noise. For it
was neither shuffling, nor treading of any kind, nor yet was it the
whirr of a bat's wings, the which had first occurred to me, knowing how
vampires are said to inhabit the nights in dismal places. Nor yet was it
the slurr of a snake; but rather it seemed to us to be as though a great
wet cloth were being rubbed everywhere across the floor and bulkheads.
We were the better able to be certain of the truth of this likeness,
when, suddenly, it passed across the further side of the door behind
which we listened: at which, you may be sure, we drew backwards both of
us in fright; though the door, and the chests, stood between us and that
which rubbed against it.

Presently, the sound ceased, and, listen as we might, we could no longer
distinguish it. Yet, until the morning, we dozed no more; being troubled
in mind as to what manner of thing it was which had made search in the
big cabin.

Then in time the day came, and the growling ceased. For a mournful while
the sad crying filled our ears, and then at last the eternal silence that
fills the day hours of that dismal land fell upon us.

So, being at last in quietness, we slept, being greatly awearied. About
seven in the morning, the bo'sun waked me, and I found that they had
opened the door into the big cabin; but though the bo'sun and I made
careful search, we could nowhere come upon anything to tell us aught
concerning the thing which had put us so in fright. Yet, I know not if I
am right in saying that we came upon nothing; for, in several places, the
bulkheads had a _chafed_ look; but whether this had been there before
that night, we had no means of telling.

Of that which we had heard, the bo'sun bade me make no mention, for he
would not have the men put more in fear than need be. This I conceived to
be wisdom, and so held my peace. Yet I was much troubled in my mind to
know what manner of thing it was which we had need to fear, and more--I
desired greatly to know whether we should be free of it in the daylight
hours; for there was always with me, as I went hither and thither, the
thought that IT--for that is how I designated it in my mind--might come
upon us to our destruction.

Now after breakfast, at which we had each a portion of salt pork, besides
rum and biscuit (for by now the fire in the caboose had been set going),
we turned-to at various matters, under the directing of the bo'sun. Josh
and two of the men made examination of the water casks, and the rest of
us lifted the main hatch-covers, to make inspection of her cargo; but lo!
we found nothing, save some three feet of water in her hold.

By this time, Josh had drawn some water off from the casks; but it was
most unsuitable for drinking, being vile of smell and taste. Yet the
bo'sun bade him draw some into buckets, so that the air might haply
purify it; but though this was done, and the water allowed to stand
through the morning, it was but little better.

At this, as might be imagined, we were exercised in our minds as to the
manner in which we should come upon suitable water; for by now we were
beginning to be in need of it. Yet though one said one thing, and another
said another, no one had wit enough to call to mind any method by which
our need should be satisfied. Then, when we had made an end of dining,
the bo'sun sent Josh, with four of the men, up stream, perchance after a
mile or two the water should prove of sufficient freshness to meet our
purpose. Yet they returned a little before sundown having no water; for
everywhere it was salt.

Now the bo'sun, foreseeing that it might be impossible to come upon
water, had set the man whom he had ordained to be our cook, to boiling
the creek water in three great kettles. This he had ordered to be done
soon after the boat left; and over the spout of each, he had hung a
great pot of iron, filled with cold water from the hold--this being
cooler than that from the creek--so that the steam from each kettle
impinged upon the cold surface of the iron pots, and being by this means
condensed, was caught in three buckets placed beneath them upon the floor
of the caboose. In this way, enough water was collected to supply us for
the evening and the following morning; yet it was but a slow method, and
we had sore need of a speedier, were we to leave the hulk so soon as I,
for one, desired.

We made our supper before sunset, so as to be free of the crying which we
had reason to expect. After that, the bo'sun shut the scuttle, and we
went every one of us into the captain's cabin, after which we barred the
door, as on the previous night; and well was it for us that we acted with
this prudence.

By the time that we had come into the captain's cabin, and secured the
door, it was upon sunsetting, and as the dusk came on, so did the
melancholy wailing pass over the land; yet, being by now somewhat inured
to so much strangeness, we lit our pipes, and smoked; though I observed
that none talked; for the crying without was not to be forgotten.

Now, as I have said, we kept silence; but this was only for a time, and
our reason for breaking it was a discovery made by George, the younger
apprentice. This lad, being no smoker, was fain to do something to
while away the time, and with this intent, he had raked out the
contents of a small box, which had lain upon the deck at the side of
the forrard bulkhead.

The box had appeared filled with odd small lumber of which a part was a
dozen or so grey paper wrappers, such as are used, I believe, for
carrying samples of corn; though I have seen them put to other purposes,
as, indeed, was now the case. At first George had tossed these aside; but
it growing darker the bo'sun lit one of the candles which we had found
in the lazarette. Thus, George, who was proceeding to tidy back the
rubbish which was cumbering the place, discovered something which caused
him to cry out to us his astonishment.

Now, upon hearing George call out, the bo'sun bade him keep silence,
thinking it was but a piece of boyish restlessness; but George drew the
candle to him, and bade us to listen; for the wrappers were covered with
fine handwriting after the fashion of a woman's.

Even as George told us of that which he had found we became aware that
the night was upon us; for suddenly the crying ceased, and in place
thereof there came out of the far distance the low thunder of the
night-growling, that had tormented us through the past two nights. For a
space, we ceased to smoke, and sat--listening; for it was a very fearsome
sound. In a very little while it seemed to surround the ship, as on the
previous nights; but at length, using ourselves to it, we resumed our
smoking, and bade George to read out to us from the writing upon the
paper wrappers.

Then George, though shaking somewhat in his voice, began to decipher that
which was upon the wrappers, and a strange and awesome story it was, and
bearing much upon our own concerns:--

"Now, when they discovered the spring among the trees that crown the
bank, there was much rejoicing; for we had come to have much need of
water. And some, being in fear of the ship (declaring, because of all our
misfortune and the strange disappearances of their messmates and the
brother of my lover, that she was haunted by a devil), declared their
intention of taking their gear up to the spring, and there making a camp.
This they conceived and carried out in the space of one afternoon; though
our Captain, a good and true man, begged of them, as they valued life, to
stay within the shelter of their living-place. Yet, as I have remarked,
they would none of them hark to his counseling, and, because the Mate
and the bo'sun were gone he had no means of compelling them to wisdom--"

At this point, George ceased to read, and began to rustle among the
wrappers, as though in search for the continuation of the story.

Presently he cried out that he could not find it, and dismay was
upon his face.

But the bo'sun told him to read on from such sheets as were left; for, as
he observed, we had no knowledge if more existed; and we were fain to
know further of that spring, which, from the story, appeared to be over
the bank near to the vessel.

George, being thus adjured, picked up the topmost sheet; for they were,
as I heard him explain to the bo'sun, all oddly numbered, and having but
little reference one to the other. Yet we were mightily keen to know even
so much as such odd scraps might tell unto us. Whereupon, George read
from the next wrapper, which ran thus:--

"Now, suddenly, I heard the Captain cry out that there was something in
the main cabin, and immediately my lover's voice calling to me to lock my
door, and on no condition to open it. Then the door of the Captain's
cabin slammed, and there came a silence, and the silence was broken by a
_sound_. Now, this was the first time that I had heard the Thing make
search through the big cabin; but, afterwards, my lover told me it had
happened aforetime, and they had told me naught, fearing to frighten me
needlessly; though now I understood why my lover had bidden me never to
leave my stateroom door unbolted in the nighttime. I remember also,
wondering if the noise of breaking glass that had waked me somewhat from
my dreams a night or two previously, had been the work of this
indescribable Thing; for on the morning following that night, the glass
in the skylight had been smashed. Thus it was that my thoughts wandered
out to trifles, while yet my soul seemed ready to leap out from my bosom
with fright.

"I had, by reason of usage, come to ability to sleep despite of the
fearsome growling; for I had conceived its cause to be the mutter of
spirits in the night, and had not allowed myself to be unnecessarily
frightened with doleful thoughts; for my lover had assured me of our
safety, and that we should yet come to our home. And now, beyond my door,
I could hear that fearsome sound of the Thing searching--"

George came to a sudden pause; for the bo'sun had risen and put a great
hand upon his shoulder. The lad made to speak; but the bo'sun beckoned to
him to say no word, and at that we, who had grown to nervousness through
the happenings in the story, began every one to listen. Thus we heard a
sound which had escaped us in the noise of the growling without the
vessel, and the interest of the reading.

For a space we kept very silent, no man doing more than let the breath go
in and out of his body, and so each one of us knew that something moved
without, in the big cabin. In a little, something touched upon our door,
and it was, as I have mentioned earlier, as though a great swab rubbed
and scrubbed at the woodwork. At this, the men nearest unto the door came
backwards in a surge, being put in sudden fear by reason of the Thing
being so near; but the bo'sun held up a hand, bidding them, in a low
voice, to make no unneedful noise. Yet, as though the sounds of their
moving had been heard, the door was shaken with such violence that we
waited, everyone, expecting to see it torn from its hinges; but it stood,
and we hasted to brace it by means of the bunk boards, which we placed
between it and the two great chests, and upon these we set a third chest,
so that the door was quite hid.

Now, I have no remembrance whether I have put down that when we came
first to the ship, we had found the stern window upon the larboard side
to be shattered; but so it was, and the bo'sun had closed it by means of
a teak-wood cover which was made to go over it in stormy weather, with
stout battens across, which were set tight with wedges. This he had done
upon the first night, having fear that some evil thing might come upon us
through the opening, and very prudent was this same action of his, as
shall be seen. Then George cried out that something was at the cover of
the larboard window, and we stood back, growing ever more fearful because
that some evil creature was so eager to come at us. But the bo'sun, who
was a very courageous man, and calm withal, walked over to the closed
window, and saw to it that the battens were secure; for he had knowledge
sufficient to be sure, if this were so, that no creature with strength
less than that of a whale could break it down, and in such case its bulk
would assure us from being molested.

Then, even as he made sure of the fastenings, there came a cry of fear
from some of the men; for there had come at the glass of the unbroken
window, a reddish mass, which plunged up against it, sucking upon it,
as it were. Then Josh, who was nearest to the table, caught up the
candle, and held it towards the Thing; thus I saw that it had the
appearance of a many-flapped thing shaped as it might be, out of raw
beef--_but it was alive_.

At this, we stared, everyone being too bemused with terror to do aught
to protect ourselves, even had we been possessed of weapons. And as we
remained thus, an instant, like silly sheep awaiting the butcher, I
heard the framework creak and crack, and there ran splits all across the
glass. In another moment, the whole thing would have been torn away, and
the cabin undefended, but that the bo'sun, with a great curse at us for
our landlubberly lack of use, seized the other cover, and clapped it
over the window. At that, there was more help than could be made to
avail, and the battens and wedges were in place in a trice. That this
was no sooner accomplished than need be, we had immediate proof; for
there came a rending of wood and a splintering of glass, and after that
a strange yowling out in the dark, and the yowling rose above and
drowned the continuous growling that filled the night. In a little, it
died away, and in the brief silence that seemed to ensue, we heard a
slobby fumbling at the teak cover; but it was well secured, and we had
no immediate cause for fear.




IV

The Two Faces


Of the remainder of that night, I have but a confused memory. At times we
heard the door shaken behind the great chests; but no harm came to it.
And, odd whiles, there was a soft thudding and rubbing upon the decks
over our heads, and once, as I recollect, the Thing made a final try at
the teak covers across the windows; but the day came at last, and found
me sleeping. Indeed, we had slept beyond the noon, but that the bo'sun,
mindful of our needs, waked us, and we removed the chests. Yet, for
perhaps the space of a minute, none durst open the door, until the bo'sun
bid us stand to one side. We faced about at him then, and saw that he
held a great cutlass in his right hand.

He called to us that there were four more of the weapons, and made a
backward motion with his left hand towards an open locker. At that, as
might be supposed, we made some haste to the place to which he pointed,
and found that, among some other gear, there were three more weapons such
as he held; but the fourth was a straight cut-and-thrust, and this I had
the good fortune to secure.

Being now armed, we ran to join the bo'sun; for by this he had the door
open, and was scanning the main cabin. I would remark here how a good
weapon doth seem to put heart into a man; for I, who but a few, short
hours since had feared for my life, was now right full of lustiness and
fight; which, mayhap, was no matter for regret.

From the main cabin, the bo'sun led up on to the deck, and I remember
some surprise at finding the lid of the scuttle even as we had left it
the previous night; but then I recollected that the skylight was broken,
and there was access to the big cabin that way. Yet, I questioned within
myself as to what manner of thing it could be which ignored the
convenience of the scuttle, and descended by way of the broken skylight.

We made a search of the decks and fo'cas'le, but found nothing, and,
after that, the bo'sun stationed two of us on guard, whilst the rest went
about such duties as were needful. In a little, we came to breakfast,
and, after that, we prepared to test the story upon the sample wrappers
and see perchance whether there was indeed a spring of fresh water among
the trees.

Now between the vessel and the trees, lay a slope of the thick mud,
against which the vessel rested. To have scrambled up this bank had been
next to impossible, by reason of its fat richness; for, indeed, it looked
fit to crawl; but that Josh called out to the bo'sun that he had come
upon a ladder, lashed across the fo'cas'le head. This was brought, also
several hatch covers. The latter were placed first upon the mud, and the
ladder laid upon them; by which means we were enabled to pass up to the
top of the bank without contact with the mud.

Here, we entered at once among the trees; for they grew right up to the
edge; but we had no trouble in making a way; for they were nowhere
close together; but standing, rather, each one in a little open space
by itself.

We had gone a little way among the trees, when, suddenly, one who was
with us cried out that he could see something away on our right, and we
clutched everyone his weapon the more determinedly, and went towards it.
Yet it proved to be but a seaman's chest, and a space further off, we
discovered another. And so, after a little walking, we found the camp;
but there was small semblance of a camp about it; for the sail of which
the tent had been formed, was all torn and stained, and lay muddy upon
the ground. Yet the spring was all we had wished, clear and sweet, and so
we knew we might dream of deliverance.

Now, upon our discovery of the spring, it might be thought that we should
set up a shout to those upon the vessel; but this was not so; for there
was something in the air of the place which cast a gloom upon our
spirits, and we had no disinclination to return unto the vessel.

Upon coming to the brig, the bo'sun called to four of the men to go down
into the boats, and pass up the breakers: also, he collected all the
buckets belonging to the brig, and forthwith each of us was set to our
work. Some, those with the weapons, entered into the wood, and gave down
the water to those stationed upon the bank, and these, in turn, passed it
to those in the vessel. To the man in the galley, the bo'sun gave command
to fill a boiler with some of the most select pieces of the pork and beef
from the casks and get them cooked so soon as might be, and so we were
kept at it; for it had been determined--now that we had come upon
water--that we should stay not an hour longer in that monster-ridden
craft, and we were all agog to get the boats revictualled, and put back
to the sea, from which we had too gladly escaped.

So we worked through all that remainder of the morning, and right on into
the afternoon; for we were in mortal fear of the coming dark. Towards
four o'clock, the bo'sun sent the man, who had been set to do our
cooking, up to us with slices of salt meat upon biscuits, and we ate as
we worked, washing our throats with water from the spring, and so, before
the evening, we had filled our breakers, and near every vessel which was
convenient for us to take in the boats. More, some of us snatched the
chance to wash our bodies; for we were sore with brine, having dipped in
the sea to keep down thirst as much as might be.

Now, though it had not taken us so great a while to make a finish of our
water-carrying if matters had been more convenient; yet because of the
softness of the ground under our feet, and the care with which we had to
pick our steps, and some little distance between us and the brig, it had
grown later than we desired, before we had made an end. Therefore, when
the bo'sun sent word that we should come aboard, and bring our gear, we
made all haste. Thus, as it chanced, I found that I had left my sword
beside the spring, having placed it there to have two hands for the
carrying of one of the breakers. At my remarking my loss, George, who
stood near, cried out that he would run for it, and was gone in a moment,
being greatly curious to see the spring.

Now, at this moment, the bo'sun came up, and called for George; but I
informed him that he had run to the spring to bring me my sword. At this,
the bo'sun stamped his foot, and swore a great oath, declaring that he
had kept the lad by him all the day; having a wish to keep him from any
danger which the wood might hold, and knowing the lad's desire to
adventure there. At this, a matter which I should have known, I
reproached myself for so gross a piece of stupidity, and hastened after
the bo'sun, who had disappeared over the top of the bank. I saw his back
as he passed into the wood, and ran until I was up with him; for,
suddenly, as it were, I found that a sense of chilly dampness had come
among the trees; though a while before the place had been full of the
warmth of the sun. This, I put to the account of evening, which was
drawing on apace; and also, it must be borne in mind, that there were but
the two of us.

We came to the spring; but George was not to be seen, and I saw no sign
of my sword. At this, the bo'sun raised his voice, and cried out the
lad's name. Once he called, and again; then at the second shout we heard
the boy's shrill halloo, from some distance ahead among the trees. At
that, we ran towards the sound, plunging heavily across the ground, which
was every-where covered with a thick scum, that clogged the feet in
walking. As we ran, we hallooed, and so came upon the boy, and I saw that
he had my sword.

The bo'sun ran towards him, and caught him by the arm, speaking with
anger, and commanding him to return with us immediately to the vessel.

But the lad, for reply, pointed with my sword, and we saw that he pointed
at what appeared to be a bird against the trunk of one of the trees.
This, as I moved closer, I perceived to be a part of the tree, and no
bird; but it had a very wondrous likeness to a bird; so much so that I
went up to it, to see if my eyes had deceived me. Yet it seemed no more
than a freak of nature, though most wondrous in its fidelity; being but
an excrescence upon the trunk. With a sudden thought that it would make
me a curio, I reached up to see whether I could break it away from the
tree; but it was above my reach, so that I had to leave it. Yet, one
thing I discovered; for, in stretching towards the protuberance, I had
placed a hand upon the tree, and its trunk was soft as pulp under my
fingers, much after the fashion of a mushroom.

As we turned to go, the bo'sun inquired of George his reason for going
beyond the spring, and George told him that he had seemed to hear someone
calling to him among the trees, and there had been so much pain in the
voice that he had run towards it; but been unable to discover the owner.
Immediately afterwards he had seen the curious, bird-like excrescence
upon a tree nearby. Then we had called, and of the rest we had knowledge.

We had come nigh to the spring on our return journey, when a sudden low
whine seemed to run among the trees. I glanced towards the sky, and
realized that the evening was upon us. I was about to remark upon this to
the bo'sun, when, abruptly, he came to a stand, and bent forward to stare
into the shadows to our right. At that, George and I turned ourselves
about to perceive what matter it was which had attracted the attention of
the bo'sun; thus we made out a tree some twenty yards away, which had all
its branches wrapped about its trunk, much as the lash of a whip is wound
about its stock. Now this seemed to us a very strange sight, and we made
all of us toward it, to learn the reason of so extraordinary a happening.

Yet, when we had come close upon it, we had no means of arriving at a
knowledge of that which it portended; but walked each of us around the
tree, and were more astonished, after our circumnavigation of the great
vegetable than before.

Now, suddenly, and in the distance, I caught the far wailing that came
before the night, and abruptly, as it seemed to me, the tree wailed at
us. At that I was vastly astonished and frightened; yet, though I
retreated, I could not withdraw my gaze from the tree; but scanned it
the more intently; and, suddenly, I saw a brown, human face peering at
us from between the wrapped branches. At this, I stood very still, being
seized with that fear which renders one shortly incapable of movement.
Then, before I had possession of myself, I saw that it was of a part
with the trunk of the tree; for I could not tell where it ended and the
tree began.

Then I caught the bo'sun by the arm, and pointed; for whether it was a
part of the tree or not, it was a work of the devil; but the bo'sun, on
seeing it, ran straightway so close to the tree that he might have
touched it with his hand, and I found myself beside him. Now, George, who
was on the bo'sun's other side, whispered that there was another face,
not unlike to a woman's, and, indeed, so soon as I perceived it, I saw
that the tree had a second excrescence, most strangely after the face of
a woman. Then the bo'sun cried out with an oath, at the strangeness of
the thing, and I felt the arm, which I held, shake somewhat, as it might
be with a deep emotion. Then, far away, I heard again the sound of the
wailing and, immediately, from among the trees about us, there came
answering wails and a great sighing. And before I had time to be more
than aware of these things, the tree wailed again at us. And at that, the
bo'sun cried out suddenly that he knew; though of what it was that he
_knew_ I had at that time no knowledge. And, immediately, he began with
his cutlass to strike at the tree before us, and to cry upon God to blast
it; and lo! at his smiting a very fearsome thing happened, for the tree
did bleed like any live creature. Thereafter, a great yowling came from
it, and it began to writhe. And, suddenly, I became aware that all about
us the trees were a-quiver.

Then George cried out, and ran round upon my side of the bo'sun, and I
saw that one of the great cabbage-like things pursued him upon its stem,
even as an evil serpent; and very dreadful it was, for it had become
blood red in color; but I smote it with the sword, which I had taken from
the lad, and it fell to the ground.

Now from the brig I heard them hallooing, and the trees had become
like live things, and there was a vast growling in the air, and
hideous trumpetings. Then I caught the bo'sun again by the arm, and
shouted to him that we must run for our lives; and this we did,
smiting with our swords as we ran; for there came things at us, out
from the growing dusk.

Thus we made the brig, and, the boats being ready, I scrambled after the
bo'sun into his, and we put straightway into the creek, all of us,
pulling with so much haste as our loads would allow. As we went I looked
back at the brig, and it seemed to me that a multitude of things hung
over the bank above her, and there seemed a flicker of things moving
hither and thither aboard of her. And then we were in the great creek up
which we had come, and so, in a little, it was night.

All that night we rowed, keeping very strictly to the center of the big
creek, and all about us bellowed the vast growling, being more fearsome
than ever I had heard it, until it seemed to me that we had waked all
that land of terror to a knowledge of our presence. But, when the morning
came, so good a speed had we made, what with our fear, and the current
being with us, that we were nigh upon the open sea; whereat each one of
us raised a shout, feeling like freed prisoners.

And so, full of thankfulness to the Almighty, we rowed outward to the
sea.




V

The Great Storm


Now, as I have said, we came at last in safety to the open sea, and
so for a time had some degree of peace; though it was long ere we
threw off all of the terror which the Land of Lonesomeness had cast
over our hearts.

And one more matter there is regarding that land, which my memory
recalls. It will be remembered that George found certain wrappers upon
which there was writing. Now, in the haste of our leaving, he had given
no thought to take them with him; yet a portion of one he found within
the side pocket of his jacket, and it ran somewhat thus:--

"But I hear my lover's voice wailing in the night, and I go to find him;
for my loneliness is not to be borne. May God have mercy upon me!"

And that was all.

For a day and a night we stood out from the land towards the North,
having a steady breeze to which we set our lug sails, and so made very
good way, the sea being quiet, though with a slow, lumbering swell from
the Southward.

It was on the morning of the second day of our escape that we met with
the beginnings of our adventure into the Silent Sea, the which I am about
to make as clear as I am able.

The night had been quiet, and the breeze steady until near on to the
dawn, when the wind slacked away to nothing, and we lay there waiting,
perchance the sun should bring the breeze with it. And this it did; but
no such wind as we did desire; for when the morning came upon us, we
discovered all that part of the sky to be full of a fiery redness, which
presently spread away down to the South, so that an entire quarter of the
heavens was, as it seemed to us, a mighty arc of blood-colored fire.

Now, at the sight of these omens, the bo'sun gave orders to prepare the
boats for the storm which we had reason to expect, looking for it in the
South, for it was from that direction that the swell came rolling upon
us. With this intent, we roused out so much heavy canvas as the boats
contained, for we had gotten a bolt and a half from the hulk in the
creek; also the boat covers which we could lash down to the brass studs
under the gunnels of the boats. Then, in each boat, we mounted the
whaleback--which had been stowed along the tops of the thwarts--also its
supports, lashing the same to the thwarts below the knees. Then we laid
two lengths of the stout canvas the full length of the boat over the
whaleback, overlapping and nailing them to the same, so that they sloped
away down over the gunnels upon each side as though they had formed a
roof to us. Here, whilst some stretched the canvas, nailing its lower
edges to the gunnels, others were employed in lashing together the oars
and the mast, and to this bundle they secured a considerable length of
new three-and-a-half-inch hemp rope, which we had brought away from the
hulk along with the canvas. This rope was then passed over the bows and
in through the painter ring, and thence to the forrard thwarts, where it
was made fast, and we gave attention to parcel it with odd strips of
canvas against danger of chafe. And the same was done in both of the
boats, for we could not put our trust in the painters, besides which they
had not sufficient length to secure safe and easy riding.

Now by this time we had the canvas nailed down to the gunnels around our
boat, after which we spread the boat-cover over it, lacing it down to the
brass studs beneath the gunnel. And so we had all the boat covered in,
save a place in the stern where a man might stand to wield the steering
oar, for the boats were double bowed. And in each boat we made the same
preparation, lashing all movable articles, and preparing to meet so great
a storm as might well fill the heart with terror; for the sky cried out
to us that it would be no light wind, and further, the great swell from
the South grew more huge with every hour that passed; though as yet it
was without virulence, being slow and oily and black against the redness
of the sky.

Presently we were ready, and had cast over the bundle of oars and the
mast, which was to serve as our sea anchor, and so we lay waiting. It was
at this time that the bo'sun called over to Josh certain advice with
regard to that which lay before us. And after that the two of them
sculled the boats a little apart; for there might be a danger of their
being dashed together by the first violence of the storm.

And so came a time of waiting, with Josh and the bo'sun each of them at
the steering oars, and the rest of us stowed away under the coverings.
From where I crouched near the bo'sun, I had sight of Josh away upon our
port side: he was standing up black as a shape of night against the
mighty redness, when the boat came to the foamless crowns of the swells,
and then gone from sight in the hollows between.

Now midday had come and gone, and we had made shift to eat so good a
meal as our appetites would allow; for we had no knowledge how long it
might be ere we should have chance of another, if, indeed, we had ever
need to think more of such. And then, in the middle part of the
afternoon, we heard the first cryings of the storm--a far-distant
moaning, rising and falling most solemnly.

Presently, all the Southern part of the horizon so high up, maybe, as
some seven to ten degrees, was blotted out by a great black wall of
cloud, over which the red glare came down upon the great swells as though
from the light of some vast and unseen fire. It was about this time, I
observed that the sun had the appearance of a great full moon, being pale
and clearly defined, and seeming to have no warmth nor brilliancy; and
this, as may be imagined, seemed most strange to us, the more so because
of the redness in the South and East.

And all this while the swells increased most prodigiously; though without
making broken water: yet they informed us that we had done well to take
so much precaution; for surely they were raised by a very great storm. A
little before evening, the moaning came again, and then a space of
silence; after which there rose a very sudden bellowing, as of wild
beasts, and then once more the silence.

About this time, the bo'sun making no objection, I raised my head above
the cover until I was in a standing position; for, until now, I had taken
no more than occasional peeps; and I was very glad of the chance to
stretch my limbs; for I had grown mightily cramped. Having stirred the
sluggishness of my blood, I sat me down again; but in such position that
I could see every part of the horizon without difficulty. Ahead of us,
that is to the South, I saw now that the great wall of cloud had risen
some further degrees, and there was something less of the redness;
though, indeed, what there was left of it was sufficiently terrifying;
for it appeared to crest the black cloud like red foam, seeming, it might
be, as though a mighty sea made ready to break over the world.

Towards the West, the sun was sinking behind a curious red-tinted haze,
which gave it the appearance of a dull red disk. To the North, seeming
very high in the sky, were some flecks of cloud lying motionless, and of
a very pretty rose color. And here I may remark that all the sea to the
North of us appeared as a very ocean of dull red fire; though, as might
be expected, the swells, coming up from the South, against the light were
so many exceeding great hills of blackness.

It was just after I had made these observations that we heard again the
distant roaring of the storm, and I know not how to convey the exceeding
terror of that sound. It was as though some mighty beast growled far down
towards the South; and it seemed to make very clear to me that we were
but two small craft in a very lonesome place. Then, even while the
roaring lasted, I saw a sudden light flare up, as it were from the edge
of the Southern horizon. It had somewhat the appearance of lightning; yet
vanished not immediately, as is the wont of lightning; and more, it had
not been my experience to witness such spring up from out of the sea,
but, rather, down from the heavens. Yet I have little doubt but that it
was a form of lightning; for it came many times after this, so that I had
chance to observe it minutely. And frequently, as I watched, the storm
would shout at us in a most fearsome manner.

Then, when the sun was low upon the horizon, there came to our ears a
very shrill, screaming noise, most penetrating and distressing, and,
immediately afterwards the bo'sun shouted out something in a hoarse
voice, and commenced to sway furiously upon the steering oar. I saw his
stare fixed upon a point a little on our larboard bow, and perceived that
in that direction the sea was all blown up into vast clouds of dust-like
froth, and I knew that the storm was upon us. Immediately afterwards a
cold blast struck us; but we suffered no harm, for the bo'sun had gotten
the boat bows-on by this. The wind passed us, and there was an instant of
calm. And now all the air above us was full of a continuous roaring, so
very loud and intense that I was like to be deafened. To windward, I
perceived an enormous wall of spray bearing down upon us, and I heard
again the shrill screaming, pierce through the roaring. Then, the bo'sun
whipped in his oar under the cover, and, reaching forward, drew the
canvas aft, so that it covered the entire boat, and he held it down
against the gunnel upon the starboard side, shouting in my ear to do
likewise upon the larboard. Now had it not been for this forethought on
the part of the bo'sun we had been all dead men; and this may be the
better believed when I explain that we felt the water falling upon the
stout canvas overhead, tons and tons, though so beaten to froth as to
lack solidity to sink or crush us. I have said "felt"; for I would make
it so clear as may be, here once and for all, that so intense was the
roaring and screaming of the elements, there could no sound have
penetrated to us, no! not the pealing of mighty thunders. And so for the
space of maybe a full minute the boat quivered and shook most vilely, so
that she seemed like to have been shaken in pieces, and from a dozen
places between the gunnel and the covering canvas, the water spurted in
upon us. And here one other thing I would make mention of: During that
minute, the boat had ceased to rise and fall upon the great swell, and
whether this was because the sea was flattened by the first rush of the
wind, or that the excess of the storm held her steady, I am unable to
tell; and can put down only that which we felt.

Now, in a little, the first fury of the blast being spent, the boat
began to sway from side to side, as though the wind blew now upon the one
beam, and now upon the other; and several times we were stricken heavily
with the blows of solid water. But presently this ceased, and we returned
once again to the rise and fall of the swell, only that now we received a
cruel jerk every time that the boat came upon the top of a sea. And so a
while passed.

Towards midnight, as I should judge, there came some mighty flames of
lightning, so bright that they lit up the boat through the double
covering of canvas; yet no man of us heard aught of the thunder; for the
roaring of the storm made all else a silence.

And so to the dawn, after which, finding that we were still, by the mercy
of God, possessed of our lives, we made shift to eat and drink; after
which we slept.

Now, being extremely wearied by the stress of the past night, I slumbered
through many hours of the storm, waking at some time between noon and
evening. Overhead, as I lay looking upwards, the canvas showed of a dull
leadenish color, blackened completely at whiles by the dash of spray and
water. And so, presently, having eaten again, and feeling that all things
lay in the hands of the Almighty, I came once more upon sleep.

Twice through the following night was I wakened by the boat being hurled
upon her beam-ends by the blows of the seas; but she righted easily, and
took scarce any water, the canvas proving a very roof of safety. And so
the morning came again.

Being now rested, I crawled after to where the bo'sun lay, and, the noise
of the storm lulling odd instants, shouted in his ear to know whether the
wind was easing at whiles. To this he nodded, whereat I felt a most
joyful sense of hope pulse through me, and ate such food as could be
gotten, with a very good relish.

In the afternoon, the sun broke out suddenly, lighting up the boat most
gloomily through the wet canvas; yet a very welcome light it was, and
bred in us a hope that the storm was near to breaking. In a little, the
sun disappeared; but, presently, it coming again, the bo'sun beckoned to
me to assist him, and we removed such temporary nails as we had used to
fasten down the after part of the canvas, and pushed back the covering a
space sufficient to allow our heads to go through into the daylight. On
looking out, I discovered the air to be full of spray, beaten as fine as
dust, and then, before I could note aught else, a little gout of water
took me in the face with such force as to deprive me of breath; so that I
had to descend beneath the canvas for a little while.

So soon as I was recovered, I thrust forth my head again, and now I had
some sight of the terrors around us. As each huge sea came towards us,
the boat shot up to meet it, right up to its very crest, and there, for
the space of some instants, we would seem to be swamped in a very ocean
of foam, boiling up on each side of the boat to the height of many feet.
Then, the sea passing from under us, we would go swooping dizzily down
the great, black, froth-splotched back of the wave, until the oncoming
sea caught us up most mightily. Odd whiles, the crest of a sea would hurl
forward before we had reached the top, and though the boat shot upward
like a veritable feather, yet the water would swirl right over us, and we
would have to draw in our heads most suddenly; in such cases the wind
flapping the cover down so soon as our hands were removed. And, apart
from the way in which the boat met the seas, there was a very sense of
terror in the air; the continuous roaring and howling of the storm; the
_screaming_ of the foam, as the frothy summits of the briny mountains
hurled past us, and the wind that tore the breath out of our weak human
throats, are things scarce to be conceived.

Presently, we drew in our heads, the sun having vanished again, and
nailed down the canvas once more, and so prepared for the night.

From here on until the morning, I have very little knowledge of any
happenings; for I slept much of the time, and, for the rest, there was
little to know, cooped up beneath the cover. Nothing save the
interminable, thundering swoop of the boat downwards, and then the halt
and upward hurl, and the occasional plunges and surges to larboard or
starboard, occasioned, I can only suppose, by the indiscriminate might
of the seas.

I would make mention here, how that I had little thought all this while
for the peril of the other boat, and, indeed, I was so very full of our
own that it is no matter at which to wonder. However, as it proved, and
as this is a most suitable place in which to tell it, the boat that held
Josh and the rest of the crew came through the storm with safety; though
it was not until many years afterwards that I had the good fortune to
hear from Josh himself how that, after the storm, they were picked up by
a homeward-bound vessel, and landed in the Port of London.

And now, to our own happenings.




VI

The Weed-Choked Sea


It was some little while before midday that we grew conscious that the
sea had become very much less violent; and this despite the wind roaring
with scarce abated noise. And, presently, everything about the boat,
saving the wind, having grown indubitably calmer, and no great water
breaking over the canvas, the bo'sun beckoned me again to assist him lift
the after part of the cover. This we did, and put forth our heads to
inquire the reason of the unexpected quietness of the sea; not knowing
but that we had come suddenly under the lee of some unknown land. Yet,
for a space, we could see nothing, beyond the surrounding billows; for
the sea was still very furious, though no matter to cause us concern,
after that through which we had come.

Presently, however, the bo'sun, raising himself, saw something, and,
bending cried in my ear that there was a low bank which broke the force
of the sea; but he was full of wonder to know how that we had passed it
without shipwreck. And whilst he was still pondering the matter I raised
myself, and took a look on all sides of us, and so I discovered that
there lay another great bank upon our larboard side, and this I pointed
out to him. Immediately afterwards, we came upon a great mass of seaweed
swung up on the crest of a sea, and, presently, another. And so we
drifted on, and the seas grew less with astonishing rapidity, so that, in
a little, we stripped off the cover so far as the midship thwart; for the
rest of the men were sorely in need of the fresh air, after so long a
time below the canvas covering.

It was after we had eaten, that one of them made out that there was
another low bank astern upon which we were drifting. At that, the bo'sun
stood up and made an examination of it, being much exercised in his mind
to know how we might come clear of it with safety. Presently, however, we
had come so near to it that we discovered it to be composed of seaweed,
and so we let the boat drive upon it, making no doubt but that the other
banks, which we had seen, were of a similar nature.

In a little, we had driven in among the weed; yet, though our speed was
greatly slowed, we made some progress, and so in time came out upon the
other side, and now we found the sea to be near quiet, so that we hauled
in our sea anchor--which had collected a great mass of weed about it--and
removed the whaleback and canvas coverings, after which we stepped the
mast, and set a tiny storm-foresail upon the boat; for we wished to have
her under control, and could set no more than this, because of the
violence of the breeze.

Thus we drove on before the wind, the bo'sun steering, and avoiding all
such banks as showed ahead, and ever the sea grew calmer. Then, when it
was near on to evening, we discovered a huge stretch of the weed that
seemed to block all the sea ahead, and, at that, we hauled down the
foresail, and took to our oars, and began to pull, broadside on to it,
towards the West. Yet so strong was the breeze, that we were being driven
down rapidly upon it. And then, just before sunset, we opened out the
end of it, and drew in our oars, very thankful to set the little
foresail, and run off again before the wind.

And so, presently, the night came down upon us, and the bo'sun made us
take turn and turn about to keep a look-out; for the boat was going some
knots through the water, and we were among strange seas; but _he_ took no
sleep all that night, keeping always to the steering oar.

I have memory, during my time of watching, of passing odd floating
masses, which I make no doubt were weed, and once we drove right atop of
one; but drew clear without much trouble. And all the while, through the
dark to starboard, I could make out the dim outline of that enormous weed
extent lying low upon the sea, and seeming without end. And so,
presently, my time to watch being at an end, I returned to my slumber,
and when next I waked it was morning.

Now the morning discovered to me that there was no end to the weed upon
our starboard side; for it stretched away into the distance ahead of us
so far as we could see; while all about us the sea was full of floating
masses of the stuff. And then, suddenly, one of the men cried out that
there was a vessel in among the weed. At that, as may be imagined, we
were very greatly excited, and stood upon the thwarts that we might get
better view of her. Thus I saw her a great way in from the edge of the
weed, and I noted that her foremast was gone near to the deck, and she
had no main topmast; though, strangely enough, her mizzen stood unharmed.
And beyond this, I could make out but little, because of the distance;
though the sun, which was upon our larboard side, gave me some sight of
her hull, but not much, because of the weed in which she was deeply
embedded; yet it seemed to me that her sides were very weather-worn, and
in one place some glistening brown object, which may have been a fungus,
caught the rays of the sun, sending off a wet sheen.

There we stood, all of us, upon the thwarts, staring and exchanging
opinions, and were like to have overset the boat; but that the bo'sun
ordered us down. And after this we made our breakfast, and had much
discussion regarding the stranger, as we ate.

Later, towards midday, we were able to set our mizzen; for the storm had
greatly modified, and so, presently, we hauled away to the West, to
escape a great bank of the weed which ran out from the main body. Upon
rounding this, we let the boat off again, and set the main lug, and thus
made very good speed before the wind. Yet though we ran all that
afternoon parallel with the weed to starboard, we came not to its end.
And three separate times we saw the hulks of rotting vessels, some of
them having the appearance of a previous age, so ancient did they seem.

Now, towards evening, the wind dropped to a very little breeze, so that
we made but slow way, and thus we had better chance to study the weed.
And now we saw that it was full of crabs; though for the most part so
very minute as to escape the casual glance; yet they were not all small,
for in a while I discovered a swaying among the weed, a little way in
from the edge, and immediately I saw the mandible of a very great crab
stir amid the weed. At that, hoping to obtain it for food, I pointed it
out to the bo'sun, suggesting that we should try and capture it. And so,
there being by now scarce any wind, he bade us get out a couple of the
oars, and back the boat up to the weed. This we did, after which he made
fast a piece of salt meat to a bit of spun yarn, and bent this on to the
boat hook. Then he made a running bowline, and slipped the loop on to the
shaft of the boat hook, after which he held out the boat hook, after the
fashion of a fishing rod, over the place where I had seen the crab.
Almost immediately, there swept up an enormous claw, and grasped the
meat, and at that, the bo'sun cried out to me to take an oar and slide
the bowline along the boat-hook, so that it should fall over the claw,
and this I did, and immediately some of us hauled upon the line,
taughtening it about the great claw. Then the bo'sun sung out to us to
haul the crab aboard, that we had it most securely; yet on the instant we
had reason to wish that we had been less successful; for the creature,
feeling the tug of our pull upon it, tossed the weed in all directions,
and thus we had full sight of it, and discovered it to be so great a crab
as is scarce conceivable--a very monster. And further, it was apparent to
us that the brute had no fear of us, nor intention to escape; but rather
made to come at us; whereat the bo'sun, perceiving our danger, cut the
line, and bade us put weight upon the oars, and so in a moment we were in
safety, and very determined to have no more meddlings with such
creatures.

Presently, the night came upon us, and, the wind remaining low, there
was everywhere about us a great stillness, most solemn after the
continuous roaring of the storm which had beset us in the previous days.
Yet now and again a little wind would rise and blow across the sea, and
where it met the weed, there would come a low, damp rustling, so that I
could hear the passage of it for no little time after the calm had come
once more all about us.

Now it is a strange thing that I, who had slept amid the noise of the
past days, should find sleeplessness amid so much calm; yet so it was,
and presently I took the steering oar, proposing that the rest should
sleep, and to this the bo'sun agreed, first warning me, however, most
particularly to have care that I kept the boat off the weed (for we had
still a little way on us), and, further, to call him should anything
unforeseen occur. And after that, almost immediately he fell asleep, as
indeed did the most of the men.

From the time that I relieved the bo'sun, until midnight, I sat upon the
gunnel of the boat, with the steering oar under my arm, and watched and
listened, most full of a sense of the strangeness of the seas into
which we had come. It is true that I had heard tell of seas choked up
with weed--seas that were full of stagnation, having no tides; but I
had not thought to come upon such an one in my wanderings; having,
indeed, set down such tales as being bred of imagination, and without
reality in fact.

Then, a little before the dawn, and when the sea was yet full of
darkness, I was greatly startled to hear a prodigious splash amid the
weed, mayhaps at a distance of some hundred yards from the boat. Then,
as I stood full of alertness, and knowing not what the next moment
might bring forth, there came to me across the immense waste of weed, a
long, mournful cry, and then again the silence. Yet, though I kept very
quiet, there came no further sound, and I was about to re-seat myself,
when, afar off in that strange wilderness, there flashed out a sudden
flame of fire.

Now upon seeing fire in the midst of so much lonesomeness, I was as one
amazed, and could do naught but stare. Then, my judgment returning to me,
I stooped and waked the bo'sun; for it seemed to me that this was a
matter for his attention. He, after staring at it awhile, declared that
he could see the shape of a vessel's hull beyond the flame; but,
immediately, he was in doubt, as, indeed, I had been all the while. And
then, even as we peered, the light vanished, and though we waited for the
space of some minutes; watching steadfastly, there came no further sight
of that strange illumination.

From now until the dawn, the bo'sun remained awake with me, and we talked
much upon that which we had seen; yet could come to no satisfactory
conclusion; for it seemed impossible to us that a place of so much
desolation could contain any living being. And then, just as the dawn was
upon us, there loomed up a fresh wonder--the hull of a great vessel maybe
a couple or three score fathoms in from the edge of the weed. Now the
wind was still very light, being no more than an occasional breath, so
that we went past her at a drift, thus the dawn had strengthened
sufficiently to give to us a clear sight of the stranger, before we had
gone more than a little past her. And now I perceived that she lay full
broadside on to us, and that her three masts were gone close down to the
deck. Her side was streaked in places with rust, and in others a green
scum overspread her; but it was no more than a glance that I gave at any
of those matters; for I had spied something which drew all my
attention--great leathery arms splayed all across her side, some of them
crooked inboard over the rail, and then, low down, seen just above the
weed, the huge, brown, glistening bulk of so great a monster as ever I
had conceived. The bo'sun saw it in the same instant and cried out in a
hoarse whisper that it was a mighty devilfish, and then, even as he
spoke, two of the arms flickered up into the cold light of the dawn, as
though the creature had been asleep, and we had waked it. At that, the
bo'sun seized an oar, and I did likewise, and, so swiftly as we dared,
for fear of making any unneedful noise, we pulled the boat to a safer
distance. From there and until the vessel had become indistinct by reason
of the space we put between us, we watched that great creature clutched
to the old hull, as it might be a limpet to a rock.

Presently, when it was broad day, some of the men began to rouse up, and
in a little we broke our fast, which was not displeasing to me, who had
spent the night watching. And so through the day we sailed with a very
light wind upon our larboard quarter. And all the while we kept the
great waste of weed upon our starboard side, and apart from the mainland
of the weed, as it were, there were scattered about an uncountable
number of weed islets and banks, and there were thin patches of it that
appeared scarce above the water, and through these later we let the boat
sail; for they had not sufficient density to impede our progress more
than a little.

And then, when the day was far spent, we came in sight of another
wreck amid the weeds. She lay in from the edge perhaps so much as the
half of a mile, and she had all three of her lower masts in, and her
lower yards squared. But what took our eyes more than aught else was a
great superstructure which had been built upward from her rails,
almost half-way to her main tops, and this, as we were able to
perceive, was supported by ropes let down from the yards; but of what
material the superstructure was composed, I have no knowledge; for it
was so over-grown with some form of green stuff--as was so much of the
hull as showed above the weed--as to defy our guesses. And because of
this growth, it was borne upon us that the ship must have been lost to
the world a very great age ago. At this suggestion, I grew full of
solemn thought; for it seemed to me that we had come upon the cemetery
of the oceans.

Now, in a little while after we had passed this ancient craft, the night
came down upon us, and we prepared for sleep, and because the boat was
making some little way through the water, the bo'sun gave out that each
of us should stand our turn at the steering-oar, and that he was to be
called should any fresh matter transpire. And so we settled down for the
night, and owing to my previous sleeplessness, I was full weary, so that
I knew nothing until the one whom I was to relieve shook me into
wakefulness. So soon as I was fully waked, I perceived that a low moon
hung above the horizon, and shed a very ghostly light across the great
weed world to starboard. For the rest, the night was exceeding quiet, so
that no sound came to me in all that ocean, save the rippling of the
water upon our bends as the boat forged slowly along. And so I settled
down to pass the time ere I should be allowed to sleep; but first I asked
the man whom I had relieved, how long a time had passed since moon-rise;
to which he replied that it was no more than the half of an hour, and
after that I questioned whether he had seen aught strange amid the weed
during his time at the oar; but he had seen nothing, except that once he
had fancied a light had shown in the midst of the waste; yet it could
have been naught save a humor of the imagination; though apart from this,
he had heard a strange crying a little after midnight, and twice there
had been great splashes among the weed. And after that he fell asleep,
being impatient at my questioning.

Now it so chanced that my watch had come just before the dawn; for which
I was full of thankfulness, being in that frame of mind when the dark
breeds strange and unwholesome fancies. Yet, though I was so near to the
dawn, I was not to escape free of the eerie influence of that place; for,
as I sat, running my gaze to and fro over its grey immensity, it came to
me that there were strange movements among the weed, and I seemed to see
vaguely, as one may see things in dreams, dim white faces peer out at me
here and there; yet my common sense assured me that I was but deceived by
the uncertain light and the sleep in my eyes; yet for all that, it put my
nerves on the quiver.

A little later, there came to my ears the noise of a very great splash
amid the weed; but though I stared with intentness, I could nowhere
discern aught as likely to be the cause thereof. And then, suddenly,
between me and the moon, there drove up from out of that great waste a
vast bulk, flinging huge masses of weed in all directions. It seemed to
be no more than a hundred fathoms distant, and, against the moon, I saw
the outline of it most clearly--a mighty devilfish. Then it had fallen
back once more with a prodigious splash, and so the quiet fell again,
finding me sore afraid, and no little bewildered that so monstrous a
creature could leap with such agility. And then (in my fright I had let
the boat come near to the edge of the weed) there came a subtle stir
opposite to our starboard bow, and something slid down into the water. I
swayed upon the oar to turn the boat's head outward, and with the same
movement leant forward and sideways to peer, bringing my face near to the
boat's rail. In the same instant, I found myself looking down into a
white demoniac face, human save that the mouth and nose had greatly the
appearance of a beak. The thing was gripping at the side of the boat with
two flickering hands--gripping the bare, smooth outer surface, in a way
that woke in my mind a sudden memory of the great devilfish which had
clung to the side of the wreck we had passed in the previous dawn. I saw
the face come up towards me, and one misshapen hand fluttered almost to
my throat, and there came a sudden, hateful reek in my nostrils--foul and
abominable. Then, I came into possession of my faculties, and drew back
with great haste and a wild cry of fear. And then I had the steering-oar
by the middle, and was smiting downward with the loom over the side of
the boat; but the thing was gone from my sight. I remember shouting out
to the bo'sun and to the men to awake, and then the bo'sun had me by the
shoulder, was calling in my ear to know what dire thing had come about.
At that, I cried out that I did not know, and, presently, being somewhat
calmer, I told them of the thing that I had seen; but even as I told of
it, there seemed to be no truth in it, so that they were all at a loss to
know whether I had fallen asleep, or that I had indeed seen a devil.

And presently the dawn was upon us.




VII

The Island in the Weed


It was as we were all discussing the matter of the devil face that had
peered up at me out of the water, that Job, the ordinary seaman,
discovered the island in the light of the growing dawn, and, seeing it,
sprang to his feet, with so loud a cry that we were like for the moment
to have thought he had seen a second demon. Yet when we made discovery of
that which he had already perceived, we checked our blame at his sudden
shout; for the sight of land, after so much desolation, made us very warm
in our hearts.

Now at first the island seemed but a very small matter; for we did not
know at that time that we viewed it from its end; yet despite this, we
took to our oars and rowed with all haste towards it, and so, coming
nearer, were able to see that it had a greater size than we had imagined.
Presently, having cleared the end of it, and keeping to that side which
was further from the great mass of the weed-continent, we opened out a
bay that curved inward to a sandy beach, most seductive to our tired
eyes. Here, for the space of a minute, we paused to survey the prospect,
and I saw that the island was of a very strange shape, having a great
hump of black rock at either end, and dipping down into a steep valley
between them. In this valley there seemed to be a deal of a strange
vegetation that had the appearance of mighty toadstools; and down nearer
the beach there was a thick grove of a kind of very tall reed, and these
we discovered afterwards to be exceeding tough and light, having
something of the qualities of the bamboo.

Regarding the beach, it might have been most reasonably supposed that it
would be very thick with the driftweed; but this was not so, at least,
not at that time; though a projecting horn of the black rock which ran
out into the sea from the upper end of the island, was thick with it.

And now, the bo'sun having assured himself that there was no appearance
of any danger, we bent to our oars, and presently had the boat aground
upon the beach, and here, finding it convenient, we made our breakfast.
During this meal, the bo'sun discussed with us the most proper thing to
do, and it was decided to push the boat off from the shore, leaving Job
in her, whilst the remainder of us made some exploration of the island.

And so, having made an end of eating, we proceeded as we had
determined, leaving Job in the boat, ready to scull ashore for us if we
were pursued by any savage creature, while the rest of us made our way
towards the nearer hump, from which, as it stood some hundred feet
above the sea, we hoped to get a very good idea of the remainder of the
island. First, however, the bo'sun handed out to us the two cutlasses
and the cut-and-thrust (the other two cutlasses being in Josh's boat),
and, taking one himself, he passed me the cut-and-thrust, and gave the
other cutlass to the biggest of the men. Then he bade the others keep
their sheath knives handy, and was proceeding to lead the way, when one
of them called out to us to wait a moment, and, with that, ran quickly
to the clump of reeds. Here, he took one with both his hands and bent
upon it; but it would not break, so that he had to notch it about with
his knife, and thus, in a little, he had it clear. After this, he cut
off the upper part, which was too thin and lissome for his purpose, and
then thrust the handle of his knife into the end of the portion which
he had retained, and in this wise he had a most serviceable lance or
spear. For the reeds were very strong, and hollow after the fashion of
bamboo, and when he had bound some yarn about the end into which he had
thrust his knife, so as to prevent it splitting, it was a fit enough
weapon for any man.

Now the bo'sun, perceiving the happiness of the fellow's idea, bade the
rest make to themselves similar weapons, and whilst they were busy thus,
he commended the man very warmly. And so, in a little, being now most
comfortably armed, we made inland towards the nearer black hill, in very
good spirits. Presently, we were come to the rock which formed the hill,
and found that it came up out of the sand with great abruptness, so that
we could not climb it on the seaward side. At that, the bo'sun led us
round a space towards that side where lay the valley, and here there was
under-foot neither sand nor rock; but ground of strange and spongy
texture, and then suddenly, rounding a jutting spur of the rock, we came
upon the first of the vegetation--an incredible mushroom; nay, I should
say toadstool; for it had no healthy look about it, and gave out a heavy,
mouldy odor. And now we perceived that the valley was filled with them,
all, that is, save a great circular patch where nothing appeared to be
growing; though we were not yet at a sufficient height to ascertain the
reason of this.

Presently, we came to a place where the rock was split by a great fissure
running up to the top, and showing many ledges and convenient shelves
upon which we might obtain hold and footing. And so we set-to about
climbing, helping one another so far as we had ability, until, in about
the space of some ten minutes, we reached the top, and from thence had a
very fine view. We perceived now that there was a beach upon that side of
the island which was opposed to the weed; though, unlike that upon which
we had landed, it was greatly choked with weed which had drifted ashore.
After that, I gave notice to see what space of water lay between the
island and the edge of the great weed-continent, and guessed it to be no
more than maybe some ninety yards, at which I fell to wishing that it had
been greater, for I was grown much in awe of the weed and the strange
things which I conceived it to contain.

Abruptly, the bo'sun clapped me upon the shoulder, and pointed to some
object that lay out in the weed at a distance of not much less than the
half of a mile from where we stood. Now, at first, I could not conceive
what manner of thing it was at which I stared, until the bo'sun,
remarking my bewilderment, informed me that it was a vessel all covered
in, no doubt as a protection against the devil-fish and other strange
creatures in the weed. And now I began to trace the hull of her amid all
that hideous growth; but of her masts, I could discern nothing; and I
doubted not but that they had been carried away by some storm ere she was
caught by the weed; and then the thought came to me of the end of those
who had built up that protection against the horrors which the weed-world
held hidden amid its slime.

Presently, I turned my gaze once more upon the island, which was very
plain to see from where we stood. I conceived, now that I could see so
much of it, that its length would be near to half a mile, though its
breadth was something under four hundred yards; thus it was very long in
proportion to its width. In the middle part it had less breadth than at
the ends, being perhaps three hundred yards at its narrowest, and a
hundred yards wider at its broadest.

Upon both sides of the island, as I have made already a mention, there
was a beach, though this extended no great distance along the shore, the
remainder being composed of the black rock of which the hills were
formed. And now, having a closer regard to the beach upon the weed-side
of the island, I discovered amid the wrack that had been cast ashore, a
portion of the lower mast and topmast of some great ship, with rigging
attached; but the yards were all gone. This find, I pointed out to the
bo'sun, remarking that it might prove of use for firing; but he smiled at
me, telling me that the dried weed would make a very abundant fire, and
this without going to the labor of cutting the mast into suitable logs.

And now, he, in turn, called my attention to the place where the huge
fungi had come to a stop in their growing, and I saw that in the center
of the valley there was a great circular opening in the earth, like to
the mouth of a prodigious pit, and it appeared to be filled to within a
few feet of the mouth with water, over which spread a brown and horrid
scum. Now, as may be supposed, I stared with some intentness at this; for
it had the look of having been made with labor, being very symmetrical,
yet I could not conceive but that I was deluded by the distance, and that
it would have a rougher appearance when viewed from a nearer standpoint.

From contemplating this, I looked down upon the little bay in which our
boat floated. Job was sitting in the stern, sculling gently with the
steering oar and watching us. At that, I waved my hand to him in
friendly fashion, and he waved back, and then, even as I looked, I saw
something in the water under the boat--something dark colored that was
all of a-move. The boat appeared to be floating over it as over a mass
of sunk weed, and then I saw that, whatever it was, it was rising to the
surface. At this a sudden horror came over me, and I clutched the bo'sun
by the arm, and pointed, crying out that there was something under the
boat. Now the bo'sun, so soon as he saw the thing, ran forward to the
brow of the hill and, placing his hands to his mouth after the fashion
of a trumpet, sang out to the boy to bring the boat to the shore and
make fast the painter to a large piece of rock. At the bo'sun's hail,
the lad called out "I, I," and, standing up, gave a sweep with his oar
that brought the boat's head round towards the beach. Fortunately for
him he was no more than some thirty yards from the shore at this time,
else he had never come to it in this life; for the next moment the
moving brown mass beneath the boat shot out a great tentacle and the oar
was torn out of Job's hands with such power as to throw him right over
on to the starboard gunnel of the boat. The oar itself was drawn down
out of sight, and for the minute the boat was left untouched. Now the
bo'sun cried out to the boy to take another oar, and get ashore while
still he had chance, and at that we all called out various things, one
advising one thing, and another recommending some other; yet our advice
was vain, for the boy moved not, at which some cried out that he was
stunned. I looked now to where the brown thing had been, for the boat
had moved a few fathoms from the spot, having got some way upon her
before the oar was snatched, and thus I discovered that the monster had
disappeared, having, I conceived, sunk again into the depths from which
it had risen; yet it might re-appear at any moment, and in that case the
boy would be taken before our eyes.

At this juncture, the bo'sun called to us to follow him, and led the way
to the great fissure up which we had climbed, and so, in a minute, we
were, each of us, scrambling down with what haste we could make towards
the valley. And all the while as I dropped from ledge to ledge, I was
full of torment to know whether the monster had returned.

The bo'sun was the first man to reach the bottom of the cleft, and he set
off immediately round the base of the rock to the beach, the rest of us
following him as we made safe our footing in the valley. I was the third
man down; but, being light and fleet of foot, I passed the second man and
caught up with the bo'sun just as he came upon the sand. Here, I found
that the boat was within some five fathoms of the beach, and I could see
Job still lying insensible; but of the monster there was no sign.

And so matters were, the boat nearly a dozen yards from the shore, and
Job lying insensible in her; with, somewhere near under her keel (for all
that we knew) a great monster, and we helpless upon the beach.

Now I could not imagine how to save the lad, and indeed I fear he had
been left to destruction--for I had deemed it madness to try to reach the
boat by swimming--but for the extraordinary bravery of the bo'sun, who,
without hesitating, dashed into the water and swam boldly out to the
boat, which, by the grace of God, he reached without mishap, and climbed
in over the bows. Immediately, he took the painter and hove it to us,
bidding us tail on to it and bring the boat to shore without delay, and
by this method of gaining the beach he showed wisdom; for in this wise he
escaped attracting the attention of the monster by unneedful stirring of
the water, as he would surely have done had he made use of an oar.

Yet, despite his care, we had not finished with the creature; for, just
as the boat grounded, I saw the lost steering oar shoot up half its
length out of the sea, and immediately there was a mighty splather in the
water astern, and the next instant the air seemed full of huge, whirling
arms. At that, the bo'sun gave one look behind, and, seeing the thing
upon him, snatched the boy into his arms, and sprang over the bows on to
the sand. Now, at sight of the devil-fish, we had all made for the back
of the beach at a run, none troubling even to retain the painter, and
because of this, we were like to have lost the boat; for the great
cuttlefish had its arms all splayed about it, seeming to have a mind to
drag it down into the deep water from whence it had risen, and it had
possibly succeeded, but that the bo'sun brought us all to our senses;
for, having laid Job out of harm's way, he was the first to seize the
painter, which lay trailed upon the sand, and, at that, we got back our
courage and ran to assist him.

Now there happened to be convenient a great spike of rock, the same,
indeed, to which the bo'sun had bidden Job tie the boat, and to this we
ran the painter, taking a couple of turns about it and two half-hitches,
and now, unless the rope carried away, we had no reason to fear the loss
of the boat; though there seemed to us to be a danger of the creature's
crushing it. Because of this, and because of a feeling of natural anger
against the thing, the bo'sun took up from the sand one of the spears
which had been cast down when we hauled the boat ashore. With this, he
went down so far as seemed safe, and prodded the creature in one of its
tentacles--the weapon entering easily, at which I was surprised, for I
had understood that these monsters were near to invulnerable in all parts
save their eyes. At receiving this stab, the great fish appeared to feel
no hurt for it showed no signs of pain, and, at that, the bo'sun was
further emboldened to go nearer, so that he might deliver a more deadly
wound; yet scarce had he taken two steps before the hideous thing was
upon him, and, but for an agility wonderful in so great a man, he had
been destroyed. Yet, spite of so narrow an escape from death, he was not
the less determined to wound or destroy the creature, and, to this end,
he dispatched some of us to the grove of reeds to get half a dozen of the
strongest, and when we returned with these, he bade two of the men lash
their spears securely to them, and by this means they had now spears of a
length of between thirty and forty feet. With these, it was possible to
attack the devilfish without coming within reach of its tentacles. And
now being ready, he took one of the spears, telling the biggest of the
men to take the other. Then he directed him to aim for the right eye of
the huge fish whilst he would attack the left.

Now since the creature had so nearly captured the bo'sun, it had ceased
to tug at the boat, and lay silent, with its tentacles spread all about
it, and its great eyes appearing just over the stern, so that it
presented an appearance of watching our movements; though I doubt if it
saw us with any clearness; for it must have been dazed with the
brightness of the sunshine.

And now the bo'sun gave the signal to attack, at which he and the man ran
down upon the creature with their lances, as it were in rest. The
bo'sun's spear took the monster truly in its left eye; but the one
wielded by the man was too bendable, and sagged so much that it struck
the stern-post of the boat, the knife blade snapping off short. Yet it
mattered not; for the wound inflicted by the bo'sun's weapon was so
frightful, that the giant cuttlefish released the boat, and slid back
into deep water, churning it into foam, and gouting blood.

For some minutes we waited to make sure that the monster had indeed gone,
and after that, we hastened to the boat, and drew her up so far as we
were able; after which we unloaded the heaviest of her contents, and so
were able to get her right clear of the water.

And for an hour afterwards the sea all about the little beach was stained
black, and in places red.




VIII

The Noises in the Valley


Now, so soon as we had gotten the boat into safety, the which we did with
a most feverish haste, the bo'sun gave his attention to Job; for the boy
had not yet recovered from the blow which the loom of the oar had dealt
him beneath the chin when the monster snatched at it. For awhile, his
attentions produced no effect; but presently, having bathed the lad's
face with water from the sea, and rubbed rum into his chest over the
heart, the youth began to show signs of life, and soon opened his eyes,
whereupon the bo'sun gave him a stiff jorum of the rum, after which he
asked him how he seemed in himself. To this Job replied in a weak voice
that he was dizzy and his head and neck ached badly, on hearing which,
the bo'sun bade him keep lying until he had come more to himself. And so
we left him in quietness under a little shade of canvas and reeds; for
the air was warm and the sand dry, and he was not like to come to any
harm there.

At a little distance, under the directing of the bo'sun, we made to
prepare dinner, for we were now very hungry, it seeming a great while
since we had broken our fast. To this end, the bo'sun sent two of the men
across the island to gather some of the dry seaweed; for we intended to
cook some of the salt meat, this being the first cooked meal since ending
the meat which we had boiled before leaving the ship in the creek.

In the meanwhile, and until the return of the men with the fuel, the
bo'sun kept us busied in various ways. Two he sent to cut a bundle of the
reeds, and another couple to bring the meat and the iron boiler, the
latter being one that we had taken from the old brig.

Presently, the men returned with the dried seaweed, and very curious
stuff it seemed, some of it being in chunks near as thick as a man's
body; but exceeding brittle by reason of its dryness. And so in a little,
we had a very good fire going, which we fed with the seaweed and pieces
of the reeds, though we found the latter to be but indifferent fuel,
having too much sap, and being troublesome to break into convenient size.

Now when the fire had grown red and hot, the bo'sun half filled the
boiler with sea water, in which he placed the meat; and the pan, having a
stout lid, he did not scruple to place it in the very heart of the fire,
so that soon we had the contents boiling merrily.

Having gotten the dinner under way, the bo'sun set about preparing our
camp for the night, which we did by making a rough framework with the
reeds, over which we spread the boat's sails and the cover, pegging the
canvas down with tough splinters of the reed. When this was completed, we
set-to and carried there all our stores, after which the bo'sun took us
over to the other side of the island to gather fuel for the night, which
we did, each man bearing a great double armful.

Now by the time that we had brought over, each of us, two loads of the
fuel, we found the meat to be cooked, and so, without more to-do, set
ourselves down and made a very good meal off it and some biscuits, after
which we had each of us a sound tot of the rum. Having made an end of
eating and drinking, the bo'sun went over to where Job lay, to inquire
how he felt, and found him lying very quiet, though his breathing had a
heavy touch about it. However, we could conceive of nothing by which he
might be bettered, and so left him, being more hopeful that Nature would
bring him to health than any skill of which we were possessed.

By this time it was late afternoon, so that the bo'sun declared we might
please ourselves until sunset, deeming that we had earned a very good
right to rest; but that from sunset till the dawn we should, he told us,
have each of us to take turn and turn about to watch; for though we were
no longer upon the water, none might say whether we were out of danger or
not, as witness the happening of the morning; though, certainly, he
apprehended no danger from the devil-fish so long as we kept well away
from the water's edge.

And so from now until dark most of the men slept; but the bo'sun spent
much of that time in overhauling the boat, to see how it might chance to
have suffered during the storm, and also whether the struggles of the
devil-fish had strained it in any way. And, indeed, it was speedily
evident that the boat would need some attention; for the plank in her
bottom next but one to the keel, upon the starboard side, had been burst
inwards; this having been done, it would seem, by some rock in the beach
hidden just beneath the water's edge, the devil-fish having, no doubt,
ground the boat down upon it. Happily, the damage was not great; though
it would most certainly have to be carefully repaired before the boat
would be again seaworthy. For the rest, there seemed to be no other part
needing attention.

Now I had not felt any call to sleep, and so had followed the bo'sun to
the boat, giving him a hand to remove the bottom-boards, and finally to
slue her bottom a little upwards, so that he might examine the leak more
closely. When he had made an end with the boat, he went over to the
stores, and looked closely into their condition, and also to see how they
were lasting. And, after that, he sounded all the water-breakers; having
done which, he remarked that it would be well for us if we could discover
any fresh water upon the island.

By this time it was getting on towards evening, and the bo'sun went
across to look at Job, finding him much as he had been when we visited
him after dinner. At that, the bo'sun asked me to bring across one of the
longer of the bottom-boards, which I did, and we made use of it as a
stretcher to carry the lad into the tent. And afterwards, we carried all
the loose woodwork of the boat into the tent, emptying the lockers of
their contents, which included some oakum, a small boat's hatchet, a coil
of one-and-a-half-inch hemp line, a good saw, an empty colza-oil tin, a
bag of copper nails, some bolts and washers, two fishing-lines, three
spare tholes, a three-pronged grain without the shaft, two balls of spun
yarn, three hanks of roping-twine, a piece of canvas with four
roping-needles stuck in it, the boat's lamp, a spare plug, and a roll of
light duck for making boat's sails.

And so, presently, the dark came down upon the island, at which the
bo'sun waked the men, and bade them throw more fuel on to the fire, which
had burned down to a mound of glowing embers much shrouded in ash. After
that, one of them part filled the boiler with fresh water, and soon we
were occupied most pleasantly upon a supper of cold, boiled salt-meat,
hard biscuits, and rum mixed with hot water. During supper, the bo'sun
made clear to the men regarding the watches, arranging how they should
follow, so that I found I was set down to take my turn from midnight
until one of the clock. Then, he explained to them about the burst plank
in the bottom of the boat, and how that it would have to be put right
before we could hope to leave the island, and that after that night we
should have to go most strictly with the victuals; for there seemed to be
nothing upon the island, that we had up till then discovered, fit to
satisfy our bellies. More than this, if we could find no fresh water, he
should have to distil some to make up for that which we had drunk, and
this must be done before leaving the island.

Now by the time that the bo'sun had made an end of explaining these
matters, we had ceased from eating, and soon after this we made each one
of us a comfortable place in the sand within the tent, and lay down to
sleep. For a while, I found myself very wakeful, which may have been
because of the warmth of the night, and, indeed, at last I got up and
went out of the tent, conceiving that I might the better find sleep in
the open air. And so it proved; for, having lain down at the side of the
tent, a little way from the fire, I fell soon into a deep slumber, which
at first was dreamless. Presently, however, I came upon a very strange
and unsettling dream; for I dreamed that I had been left alone on the
island, and was sitting very desolate upon the edge of the brown-scummed
pit. Then I was aware suddenly that it was very dark and very silent, and
I began to shiver; for it seemed to me that something which repulsed my
whole being had come quietly behind me. At that I tried mightily to turn
and look into the shadows among the great fungi that stood all about me;
but I had no power to turn. And the thing was coming nearer, though never
a sound came to me, and I gave out a scream, or tried to; but my voice
made no stir in the rounding quiet; and then something wet and cold
touched my face, and slithered down and covered my mouth, and paused
there for a vile, breathless moment. It passed onward and fell to my
throat--and stayed there ...

Some one stumbled and felt over my feet, and at that, I was suddenly
awake. It was the man on watch making a walk round the back of the tent,
and he had not known of my presence till he fell over my boots. He was
somewhat shaken and startled, as might be supposed; but steadied himself
on learning that it was no wild creature crouched there in the shadow;
and all the time, as I answered his inquiries, I was full of a strange,
horrid feeling that something had left me at the moment of my awakening.
There was a slight, hateful odor in my nostrils that was not altogether
unfamiliar, and then, suddenly, I was aware that my face was damp and
that there was a curious sense of tingling at my throat. I put up my hand
and felt my face, and the hand when I brought it away was slippery with
slime, and at that, I put up my other hand, and touched my throat, and
there it was the same, only, in addition, there was a slight swelled
place a little to one side of the wind-pipe, the sort of place that the
bite of a mosquito will make; but I had no thought to blame any mosquito.

Now the stumbling of the man over me, my awakening, and the discovery
that my face and throat were be-slimed, were but the happenings of some
few, short instants; and then I was upon my feet, and following him round
to the fire; for I had a sense of chilliness and a great desire not to be
alone. Now, having come to the fire, I took some of the water that had
been left in the boiler, and washed my face and neck, after which I felt
more my own man. Then I asked the man to look at my throat, so that he
might give me some idea of what manner of place the swelling seemed, and
he, lighting a piece of the dry seaweed to act as a torch, made
examination of my neck; but could see little, save a number of small
ring-like marks, red inwardly, and white at the edges, and one of them
was bleeding slightly. After that, I asked him whether he had seen
anything moving round the tent; but he had seen nothing during all the
time that he had been on watch; though it was true that he had heard odd
noises; but nothing very near at hand. Of the places on my throat he
seemed to think but little, suggesting that I had been bitten by some
sort of sand-fly; but at that, I shook my head, and told him of my dream,
and after that, he was as anxious to keep near me as I to him. And so the
night passed onward, until my turn came to watch.

For a little while, the man whom I had relieved sat beside me; having,
I conceived, the kindly intent of keeping me company; but so soon as I
perceived this, I entreated him to go and get his sleep, assuring him
that I had no longer any feelings of fear--such as had been mine upon
awakening and discovering the state of my face and throat--and, upon
this, he consented to leave me, and so, in a little, I sat alone
beside the fire.

For a certain space, I kept very quiet, listening; but no sound came to
me out of the surrounding darkness, and so, as though it were a fresh
thing, it was borne in upon me how that we were in a very abominable
place of lonesomeness and desolation. And I grew very solemn.

Thus as I sat, the fire, which had not been replenished for a while,
dwindled steadily until it gave but a dullish glow around. And then, in
the direction of the valley, I heard suddenly the sound of a dull thud,
the noise coming to me through the stillness with a very startling
clearness. At that, I perceived that I was not doing my duty to the rest,
nor to myself, by sitting and allowing the fire to cease from flaming;
and immediately reproaching myself, I seized and cast a mass of the dry
weed upon the fire, so that a great blaze shot up into the night, and
afterwards I glanced quickly to right and to left, holding my
cut-and-thrust very readily, and most thankful to the Almighty that I
had brought no harm to any by reason of my carelessness, which I incline
me to believe was that strange inertia which is bred by fear. And then,
even as I looked about me, there came to me across the silence of the
beach a fresh noise, a continual soft slithering to and fro in the bottom
of the valley, as though a multitude of creatures moved stealthily. At
this, I threw yet more fuel upon the fire, and after that I fixed my gaze
in the direction of the valley: thus in the following instant it seemed
to me that I saw a certain thing, as it might be a shadow, move on the
outer borders of the firelight. Now the man who had kept watch before me
had left his spear stuck upright in the sand convenient to my grasp, and,
seeing something moving, I seized the weapon and hurled it with all my
strength in its direction; but there came no answering cry to tell that I
had struck anything living, and immediately afterwards there fell once
more a great silence upon the island, being broken only by a far splash
out upon the weed.

It may be conceived with truth that the above happenings had put a very
considerable strain upon my nerves, so that I looked to and fro
continually, with ever and anon a quick glance behind me; for it seemed
to me that I might expect some demoniac creature to rush upon me at any
moment. Yet, for the space of many minutes, there came to me neither any
sight nor sound of living creature; so that I knew not what to think,
being near to doubting if I had heard aught beyond the common.

And then, even as I made halt upon the threshold of doubt, I was assured
that I had not been mistaken; for, abruptly, I was aware that all the
valley was full of a rustling, scampering sort of noise, through which
there came to me occasional soft thuds, and anon the former slithering
sounds. And at that, thinking a host of evil things to be upon us, I
cried out to the bo'sun and the men to awake.

Immediately upon my shout, the bo'sun rushed out from the tent, the men
following, and every one with his weapon, save the man who had left his
spear in the sand, and that lay now somewhere beyond the light of the
fire. Then the bo'sun shouted, to know what thing had caused me to cry
out; but I replied nothing, only held up my hand for quietness, yet when
this was granted, the noises in the valley had ceased; so that the bo'sun
turned to me, being in need of some explanation; but I begged him to hark
a little longer, which he did, and, the sounds re-commencing almost
immediately, he heard sufficient to know that I had not waked them all
without due cause. And then, as we stood each one of us staring into the
darkness where lay the valley, I seemed to see again some shadowy thing
upon the boundary of the firelight; and, in the same instant, one of the
men cried out and cast his spear into the darkness. But the bo'sun turned
upon him with a very great anger; for in throwing his weapon, the man had
left himself without, and thus brought danger to the whole; yet, as will
be remembered, I had done likewise but a little since.

Presently, there coming again a quietness within the valley, and none
knowing what might be toward, the bo'sun caught up a mass of the dry
weed, and, lighting it at the fire, ran with it towards that portion of
the beach which lay between us and the valley. Here he cast it upon the
sand, singing out to some of the men to bring more of the weed, so that
we might have a fire there, and thus be able to see if anything made to
come at us out of the deepness of the hollow.

Presently, we had a very good fire, and by the light of this the two
spears were discovered, both of them stuck in the sand, and no more than
a yard one from the other, which seemed to me a very strange thing.

Now, for a while after the lighting of the second fire, there came no
further sounds from the direction of the valley; nothing indeed to break
the quietness of the island, save the occasional lonely splashes that
sounded from time to time out in the vastness of the weed-continent.
Then, about an hour after I had waked the bo'sun, one of the men who had
been tending the fires came up to him to say that we had come to the end
of our supply of weed-fuel. At that, the bo'sun looked very blank, the
which did the rest of us, as well we might; yet there was no help for it,
until one of the men bethought him of the remainder of the bundle of
reeds which we had cut, and which, burning but poorly, we had discarded
for the weed. This was discovered at the back of the tent, and with it we
fed the fire that burned between us and the valley; but the other we
suffered to die out, for the reeds were not sufficient to support even
the one until the dawn.

At last, and whilst it was still dark, we came to the end of our fuel,
and as the fire died down, so did the noises in the valley recommence.
And there we stood in the growing dark, each one keeping a very ready
weapon, and a more ready glance. And at times the island would be
mightily quiet, and then again the sounds of things crawling in the
valley. Yet, I think the silences tried us the more.

And so at last came the dawn.




IX

What Happened in the Dusk


Now with the coming of the dawn, a lasting silence stole across the
island and into the valley, and, conceiving that we had nothing more to
fear, the bo'sun bade us get some rest, whilst he kept watch. And so I
got at last a very substantial little spell of sleep, which made me fit
enough for the day's work.

Presently, after some hours had passed, the bo'sun roused us to go
with him to the further side of the island to gather fuel, and soon we
were back with each a load, so that in a little we had the fire going
right merrily.

Now for breakfast, we had a hash of broken biscuit, salt meat and some
shell-fish which the bo'sun had picked up from the beach at the foot of
the further hill; the whole being right liberally flavored with some of
the vinegar, which the bo'sun said would help keep down any scurvy that
might be threatening us. And at the end of the meal he served out to us
each a little of the molasses, which we mixed with hot water, and drank.

The meal being ended, he went into the tent to take a look at Job, the
which he had done already in the early morning; for the condition of the
lad preyed somewhat upon him; he being, for all his size and
top-roughness, a man of surprisingly tender heart. Yet the boy remained
much as on the previous evening, so that we knew not what to do with him
to bring him into better health. One thing we tried, knowing that no food
had passed his lips since the previous morning, and that was to get some
little quantity of hot water, rum and molasses down his throat; for it
seemed to us he might die from very lack of food; but though we worked
with him for more than the half of an hour, we could not get him to
come-to sufficiently to take anything, and without that we had fear of
suffocating him. And so, presently, we had perforce to leave him within
the tent, and go about our business; for there was very much to be done.

Yet, before we did aught else, the bo'sun led us all into the valley,
being determined to make a very thorough exploration of it, perchance
there might be any lurking beast or devil-thing waiting to rush out and
destroy us as we worked, and more, he would make search that he might
discover what manner of creatures had disturbed our night.

Now in the early morning, when we had gone for the fuel, we had kept to
the upper skirt of the valley where the rock of the nearer hill came down
into the spongy ground, but now we struck right down into the middle part
of the vale, making a way amid the mighty fungi to the pit-like opening
that filled the bottom of the valley. Now though the ground was very
soft, there was in it so much of springiness that it left no trace of our
steps after we had gone on a little way, none, that is, save that in odd
places, a wet patch followed upon our treading. Then, when we got
ourselves near to the pit, the ground became softer, so that our feet
sank into it, and left very real impressions; and here we found tracks
most curious and bewildering; for amid the slush that edged the
pit--which I would mention here had less the look of a pit now that I had
come near to it--were multitudes of markings which I can liken to nothing
so much as the tracks of mighty slugs amid the mud, only that they were
not altogether like to that of slugs; for there were other markings such
as might have been made by bunches of eels cast down and picked up
continually, at least, this is what they suggested to me, and I do but
put it down as such.

Apart from the markings which I have mentioned, there was everywhere a
deal of slime, and this we traced all over the valley among the great
toadstool plants; but, beyond that which I have already remarked, we
found nothing. Nay, but I was near to forgetting, we found a quantity of
this thin slime upon those fungi which filled the end of the little
valley nearest to our encampment, and here also we discovered many of
them fresh broken or uprooted, and there was the same mark of the beast
upon them all, and now I remember the dull thuds that I had heard in the
night, and made little doubt but that the creatures had climbed the great
toadstools so that they might spy us out; and it may be that many climbed
upon one, so that their weight broke the fungi, or uprooted them. At
least, so the thought came to me.

And so we made an end of our search, and after that, the bo'sun set each
one of us to work. But first he had us all back to the beach to give a
hand to turn over the boat, so that he might get to the damaged part.
Now, having the bottom of the boat full to his view, he made discovery
that there was other damage beside that of the burst plank; for the
bottom plank of all had come away from the keel, which seemed to us a
very serious matter; though it did not show when the boat was upon her
bilges. Yet the bo'sun assured us that he had no doubts but that she
could be made seaworthy, though it would take a greater while than
hitherto he had thought needful.

Having concluded his examination of the boat, the bo'sun sent one of the
men to bring the bottom-boards out of the tent; for he needed some
planking for the repair of the damage. Yet when the boards had been
brought, he needed still something which they could not supply, and this
was a length of very sound wood of some three inches in breadth each
way, which he intended to bolt against the starboard side of the keel,
after he had gotten the planking replaced so far as was possible. He had
hopes that by means of this device he would be able to nail the bottom
plank to this, and then caulk it with oakum, so making the boat almost
so sound as ever.

Now hearing him express his need for such a piece of timber, we were all
adrift to know from whence such a thing could be gotten, until there came
suddenly to me a memory of the mast and topmast upon the other side of
the island, and at once I made mention of them. At that, the bo'sun
nodded, saying that we might get the timber out of it, though it would be
a work requiring some considerable labor, in that we had only a hand-saw
and a small hatchet. Then he sent us across to be getting it clear of the
weed, promising to follow when he had made an end of trying to get the
two displaced planks back into position.

Having reached the spars, we set-to with a very good will to shift away
the weed and wrack that was piled over them, and very much entangled with
the rigging. Presently we had laid them bare, and so we discovered them
to be in remarkably sound condition, the lower-mast especially being a
fine piece of timber. All the lower and topmast standing rigging was
still attached, though in places the lower rigging was stranded so far as
half-way up the shrouds; yet there remained much that was good and all
of it quite free from rot, and of the very finest quality of white hemp,
such as is to be seen only in the best found vessels.

About the time that we had finished clearing the weed, the bo'sun came
over to us, bringing with him the saw and the hatchet. Under his
directions, we cut the lanyards of the topmast rigging, and after that
sawed through the topmast just above the cap. Now this was a very tough
piece of work, and employed us a great part of the morning, even though
we took turn and turn at the saw, and when it was done we were mightily
glad that the bo'sun bade one of the men go over with some weed and make
up the fire for dinner, after which he was to put on a piece of the salt
meat to boil.

In the meanwhile, the bo'sun had started to cut through the topmast,
about fifteen feet beyond the first cut, for that was the length of the
batten he required; yet so wearisome was the work, that we had not gotten
more than half through with it before the man whom the bo'sun had sent,
returned to say that the dinner was ready. When this was dispatched, and
we had rested a little over our pipes, the bo'sun rose and led us back;
for he was determined to get through with the topmast before dark.

Presently, relieving each other frequently, we completed the second
cut, and after that the bo'sun set us to saw a block about twelve
inches deep from the remaining portion of the topmast. From this, when
we had cut it, he proceeded to hew wedges with the hatchet. Then he
notched the end of the fifteen-foot log, and into the notch he drove
the wedges, and so, towards evening, as much, maybe, by good luck as
good management, he had divided the log into two halves--the split
running very fairly down the center.

Now, perceiving how that it drew near to sundown, he bade the men haste
and gather weed and carry it across to our camp; but one he sent along
the shore to make a search for shell-fish among the weed; yet he himself
ceased not to work at the divided log, and kept me with him as helper.
Thus, within the next hour, we had a length, maybe some four inches in
diameter, split off the whole length of one of the halves, and with this
he was very well content; though it seemed but a very little result for
so much labor.

By this time the dusk was upon us, and the men, having made an end of
weed carrying, were returned to us, and stood about, waiting for the
bo'sun to go into camp. At this moment, the man the bo'sun had sent to
gather shellfish, returned, and he had a great crab upon his spear, which
he had spitted through the belly. This creature could not have been less
than a foot across the back, and had a very formidable appearance; yet it
proved to be a most tasty matter for our supper, when it had been placed
for a while in boiling water.

Now so soon as this man was returned, we made at once for the camp,
carrying with us the piece of timber which we had hewn from the topmast.
By this time it was quite dusk, and very strange amid the great fungi as
we struck across the upper edge of the valley to the opposite beach.
Particularly, I noticed that the hateful, mouldy odor of these monstrous
vegetables was more offensive than I had found it to be in the daytime;
though this may be because I used my nose the more, in that I could not
use my eyes to any great extent.

We had gotten halfway across the top of the valley, and the gloom was
deepening steadily, when there stole to me upon the calmness of the
evening air, a faint smell; something quite different from that of the
surrounding fungi. A moment later I got a great whiff of it, and was near
sickened with the abomination of it; but the memory of that foul thing
which had come to the side of the boat in the dawn-gloom, before we
discovered the island, roused me to a terror beyond that of the sickness
of my stomach; for, suddenly, I knew what manner of thing it was that had
beslimed my face and throat upon the previous night, and left its hideous
stench lingering in my nostrils. And with the knowledge, I cried out to
the bo'sun to make haste, for there were demons with us in the valley.
And at that, some of the men made to run; but he bade them, in a very
grim voice, stay where they were, and keep well together, else would they
be attacked and overcome, straggled all among the fungi in the dark. And
this, being, I doubt not, as much in fear of the rounding dark as of the
bo'sun, they did, and so we came safely out of the valley; though there
seemed to follow us a little lower down the slope an uncanny slithering.

Now so soon as we reached the camp, the bo'sun ordered four fires to be
lit--one on each side of the tent, and this we did, lighting them at the
embers of our old fire, which we had most foolishly allowed to die down.
When the fires had been got going, we put on the boiler, and treated the
great crab as I have already mentioned, and so fell-to upon a very hearty
supper; but, as we ate, each man had his weapon stuck in the sand beside
him; for we had knowledge that the valley held some devilish thing, or
maybe many; though the knowing did not spoil our appetites.

And so, presently, we came to an end of eating, whereat each man pulled
out his pipe, intending to smoke; but the bo'sun told one of the men to
get him upon his feet and keep watch, else might we be in danger of
surprise, with every man lolling upon the sand; and this seemed to me
very good sense; for it was easy to see that the men, too readily, deemed
themselves secure, by reason of the brightness of the fires about them.

Now, whilst the men were taking their ease within the circle of the
fires, the bo'sun lit one of the dips which we had out of the ship in the
creek, and went in to see how Job was, after the day's rest. At that, I
rose up, reproaching myself for having forgotten the poor lad, and
followed the bo'sun into the tent. Yet, I had but reached the opening,
when he gave out a loud cry, and held the candle low down to the sand. At
that, I saw the reason for his agitation, for, in the place where we had
left Job, there was nothing. I stepped into the tent, and, in the same
instant, there came to my nostrils the faint odor of the horrible stench
which had come to me in the valley, and before then from the thing that
came to the side of the boat. And, suddenly, I knew that Job had fallen
prey of those foul things, and, knowing this, I called out to the bo'sun
that _they_ had taken the boy, and then my eyes caught the smear of slime
upon the sand, and I had proof that I was not mistaken.

Now, so soon as the bo'sun knew all that was in my mind; though indeed it
did but corroborate that which had come to his own, he came swiftly out
from the tent, bidding the men to stand back; for they had come all about
the entrance, being very much discomposed at that which the bo'sun had
discovered. Then the bo'sun took from a bundle of the reeds, which they
had cut at the time when he had bidden them gather fuel, several of the
thickest, and to one of these he bound a great mass of the dry weed;
whereupon the men, divining his intention, did likewise with the others,
and so we had each of us the wherewithal for a mighty torch.

So soon as we had completed our preparations, we took each man his weapon
and, plunging our torches into the fires, set off along the track which
had been made by the devil-things and the body of poor Job; for now that
we had suspicion that harm had come to him, the marks in the sand, and
the slime, were very plain to be seen, so that it was a wonder that we
had not discovered them earlier.

Now the bo'sun led the way, and, finding the marks led direct to the
valley, he broke into a run, holding his torch well above his head. At
that, each of us did likewise; for we had a great desire to be together,
and further than this, I think with truth I may say, we were all fierce
to avenge Job, so that we had less of fear in our hearts than otherwise
had been the case.

In less than the half of a minute we had reached the end of the valley;
but here, the ground being of a nature not happy in the revealing of
tracks, we were at fault to know in which direction to continue. At that,
the bo'sun set up a loud shout to Job, perchance he might be yet alive;
but there came no answer to us, save a low and uncomfortable echo. Then
the bo'sun, desiring to waste no more time, ran straight down towards the
center of the valley, and we followed, and kept our eyes very open about
us. We had gotten perhaps halfway, when one of the men shouted that he
saw something ahead; but the bo'sun had seen it earlier; for he was
running straight down upon it, holding his torch high and swinging his
great cutlass. Then, instead of smiting, he fell upon his knees beside
it, and the following instant we were up with him, and in that same
moment it seemed to me that I saw a number of white shapes melt swiftly
into the shadows further ahead: but I had no thought for these when I
perceived that by which the bo'sun knelt; for it was the stark body of
Job, and no inch of it but was covered with the little ringed marks that
I had discovered upon my throat, and from every place there ran a trickle
of blood, so that he was a most horrid and fearsome sight.

At the sight of Job so mangled and be-bled, there came over us the sudden
quiet of a mortal terror, and in that space of silence, the bo'sun placed
his hand over the poor lad's heart; but there was no movement, though the
body was still warm. Immediately upon that, he rose to his feet, a look
of vast wrath upon his great face. He plucked his torch from the ground,
into which he had plunged the haft, and stared round into the silence of
the valley; but there was no living thing in sight, nothing save the
giant fungi and the strange shadows cast by our great torches, and the
loneliness.

At this moment, one of the men's torches, having burnt near out, fell all
to pieces, so that he held nothing but the charred support, and
immediately two more came to a like end. Upon this, we became afraid that
they would not last us back to the camp, and we looked to the bo'sun to
know his wish; but the man was very silent, and peering everywhere into
the shadows. Then a fourth torch fell to the ground in a shower of
embers, and I turned to look. In the same instant there came a great
flare of light behind me, accompanied by the dull thud of a dry matter
set suddenly alight. I glanced swiftly back to the bo'sun, and he was
staring up at one of the giant toadstools which was in flames all along
its nearer edge, and burning with an incredible fury, sending out spirits
of flame, and anon giving out sharp reports, and at each report, a fine
powder was belched in thin streams; which, getting into our throats and
nostrils, set us sneezing and coughing most lamentably; so that I am
convinced, had any enemy come upon us at that moment, we had been undone
by reason of our uncouth helplessness.

Now whether it had come to the bo'sun to set alight this first of the
fungi, I know not; for it may be that his torch coming by chance against
it, set it afire. However it chanced, the bo'sun took it as a veritable
hint from Providence, and was already setting his torch to one a little
further off, whilst the rest of us were near to choking with our
coughings and sneezings. Yet, that we were so suddenly overcome by the
potency of the powder, I doubt if a full minute passed before we were
each one busied after the manner of the bo'sun; and those whose torches
had burned out, knocked flaming pieces from the burning fungus, and with
these impaled upon their torch-sticks, did so much execution as any.

And thus it happened that within five minutes of this discovery of Job's
body, the whole of that hideous valley sent up to heaven the reek of its
burning; whilst we, filled with murderous desires, ran hither and thither
with our weapons, seeking to destroy the vile creatures that had brought
the poor lad to so unholy a death. Yet nowhere could we discover any
brute or creature upon which to ease our vengeance, and so, presently,
the valley becoming impassable by reason of the heat, the flying sparks
and the abundance of the acrid dust, we made back to the body of the boy,
and bore him thence to the shore.

And during all that night no man of us slept, and the burning of the
fungi sent up a mighty pillar of flame out of the valley, as out of the
mouth of a monstrous pit and when the morning came it still burned. Then
when it was daylight, some of us slept, being greatly awearied; but some
kept watch.

And when we waked there was a great wind and rain upon the island.




X

The Light in the Weed


Now the wind was very violent from the sea, and threatened to blow down
our tent, the which, indeed, it achieved at last as we made an end of a
cheerless breakfast. Yet, the bo'sun bade us not trouble to put it up
again; but spread it out with the edges raised upon props made from the
reeds, so that we might catch some of the rainwater; for it was become
imperative that we should renew our supply before putting out again to
sea. And whilst some of us were busied about this, he took the others and
set up a small tent made of the spare canvas, and under this he sheltered
all of our matters like to be harmed by the rain.

In a little, the rain continuing very violent, we had near a breaker-full
of water collected in the canvas, and were about to run it off into one
of the breakers, when the bo'sun cried out to us to hold, and first taste
the water before we mixed it with that which we had already. At that, we
put down our hands and scooped up some of the water to taste, and thus we
discovered it to be brackish and quite undrinkable, at which I was
amazed, until the bo'sun reminded us that the canvas had been saturated
for many days with salt water, so that it would take a great quantity of
fresh before all the salt was washed out. Then he told us to lay it flat
upon the beach, and scour it well on both sides with the sand, which we
did, and afterwards let the rain rinse it well, whereupon the next water
that we caught we found to be near fresh; though not sufficiently so for
our purpose. Yet when we had rinsed it once more, it became clear of the
salt, so that we were able to keep all that we caught further.

And then, something before noon, the rain ceased to fall, though coming
again at odd times in short squalls; yet the wind died not, but blew
steadily, and continued so from that quarter during the remainder of the
time that we were upon the island.

Upon the ceasing of the rain, the bo'sun called us all together, that we
might make a decent burial of the unfortunate lad, whose remains had lain
during the night upon one of the bottom-boards of the boat. After a
little discussion, it was decided to bury him in the beach; for the only
part where there was soft earth was in the valley, and none of us had a
stomach for that place. Moreover, the sand was soft and easy to dig, and
as we had no proper tools, this was a great consideration. Presently,
using the bottom-boards and the oars and the hatchet, we had a place
large and deep enough to hold the boy, and into this we placed him. We
made no prayer over him; but stood about the grave for a little space, in
silence. Then, the bo'sun signed to us to fill in the sand; and,
therewith, we covered up the poor lad, and left him to his sleep.

And, presently, we made our dinner, after which the bo'sun served out to
each one of us a very sound tot of the rum; for he was minded to bring us
back again to a cheerful state of mind.

After we had sat awhile, smoking, the bo'sun divided us into two
parties to make a search through the island among the rocks, perchance
we should find water, collected from the rain, among the hollows and
crevasses; for though we had gotten some, through our device with the
sail, yet we had by no means caught sufficient for our needs. He was
especially anxious for haste, in that the sun had come out again; for he
was feared that such small pools as we should find would be speedily
dried up by its heat.

Now the bo'sun headed one party, and set the big seaman over the other,
bidding all to keep their weapons very handy. Then he set out to the
rocks about the base of the nearer hill, sending the others to the
farther and greater one, and in each party we carried an empty breaker
slung from a couple of the stout reeds, so that we might put all such
driblets as we should find, straight away into it, before they had time
to vanish into the hot air; and for the purpose of bailing up the water,
we had brought with us our tin pannikins, and one of the boat's bailers.

In a while, and after much scrambling amid the rocks, we came upon a
little pool of water that was remarkably sweet and fresh, and from this
we removed near three gallons before it became dry; and after that we
came across, maybe, five or six others; but not one of them near so big
as the first; yet we were not displeased; for we had near three parts
filled the breaker, and so we made back to the camp, having some wonder
as to the luck of the other party.

When we came near the camp, we found the others returned before us, and
seeming in a very high content with themselves; so that we had no need to
call to them as to whether they had filled their breaker. When they saw
us, they set out to us at a run to tell us that they had come upon a
great basin of fresh water in a deep hollow a third of the distance up
the side of the far hill, and at this the bo'sun bade us put down our
breaker and make all of us to the hill, so that he might examine for
himself whether their news was so good as it seemed.

Presently, being guided by the other party, we passed around to the back
of the far hill, and discovered it to go upward to the top at an easy
slope, with many ledges and broken places, so that it was scarce more
difficult than a stair to climb. And so, having climbed perhaps ninety or
a hundred feet, we came suddenly upon the place which held the water, and
found that they had not made too much of their discovery; for the pool
was near twenty feet long by twelve broad, and so clear as though it had
come from a fountain; yet it had considerable depth, as we discovered by
thrusting a spear shaft down into it.

Now the bo'sun, having seen for himself how good a supply of water there
was for our needs, seemed very much relieved in his mind, and declared
that within three days at the most we might leave the island, at which we
felt none of us any regret. Indeed, had the boat escaped harm, we had
been able to leave that same day; but this could not be; for there was
much to be done before we had her seaworthy again.

Having waited until the bo'sun had made complete his examination, we
turned to descend, thinking that this would be the bo'sun's intention;
but he called to us to stay, and, looking back, we saw that he made to
finish the ascent of the hill. At that, we hastened to follow him; though
we had no notion of his reason for going higher. Presently, we were come
to the top, and here we found a very spacious place, nicely level save
that in one or two parts it was crossed by deepish cracks, maybe half a
foot to a foot wide, and perhaps three to six fathoms long; but, apart
from these and some great boulders, it was, as I have mentioned, a
spacious place; moreover it was bone dry and pleasantly firm under one's
feet, after so long upon the sand.

I think, even thus early, I had some notion of the bo'sun's design; for
I went to the edge that overlooked the valley, and peered down, and,
finding it nigh a sheer precipice, found myself nodding my head, as
though it were in accordance with some part formed wish. Presently,
looking about me, I discovered the bo'sun to be surveying that part which
looked over towards the weed, and I made across to join him. Here, again,
I saw that the hill fell away very sheer, and after that we went across
to the seaward edge, and there it was near as abrupt as on the weed side.

Then, having by this time thought a little upon the matter, I put it
straight to the bo'sun that here would make indeed a very secure camping
place, with nothing to come at us upon our sides or back; and our front,
where was the slope, could be watched with ease. And this I put to him
with great warmth; for I was mortally in dread of the coming night.

Now when I had made an end of speaking, the bo'sun disclosed to me that
this was, as I had suspicion, his intent, and immediately he called to
the men that we should haste down, and ship our camp to the top of the
hill. At that, the men expressed their approbation, and we made haste
every one of us to the camp, and began straightway to move our gear to
the hilltop.

In the meanwhile, the bo'sun, taking me to assist him, set-to again upon
the boat, being intent to get his batten nicely shaped and fit to the
side of the keel, so that it would bed well to the keel, but more
particularly to the plank which had sprung outward from its place. And at
this he labored the greater part of that afternoon, using the little
hatchet to shape the wood, which he did with surprising skill; yet when
the evening was come, he had not brought it to his liking. But it must
not be thought that he did naught but work at the boat; for he had the
men to direct, and once he had to make his way to the top of the hill to
fix the place for the tent. And after the tent was up, he set them to
carry the dry weed to the new camp, and at this he kept them until near
dusk; for he had vowed never again to be without a sufficiency of fuel.
But two of the men he sent to collect shell-fish--putting two of them to
the task, because he would not have one alone upon the island, not
knowing but that there might be danger, even though it were bright day;
and a most happy ruling it proved; for, a little past the middle of the
afternoon, we heard them shouting at the other end of the valley, and,
not knowing but that they were in need of assistance, we ran with all
haste to discover the reason of their calling, passing along the
right-hand side of the blackened and sodden vale. Upon reaching the
further beach, we saw a most incredible sight; for the two men were
running towards us through the thick masses of the weed, while, no more
than four or five fathoms behind, they were pursued by an enormous crab.
Now I had thought the crab we had tried to capture before coming to the
island, a prodigy unsurpassed; but this creature was more than treble its
size, seeming as though a prodigious table were a-chase of them, and
moreover, spite of its monstrous bulk, it made better way over the weed
than I should have conceived to be possible--running almost sideways, and
with one enormous claw raised near a dozen feet into the air.

Now whether, omitting accidents, the men would have made good their
escape to the firmer ground of the valley, where they could have attained
to a greater speed, I do not know; but suddenly one of them tripped over
a loop of the weed, and the next instant lay helpless upon his face. He
had been dead the following moment, but for the pluck of his companion,
who faced round manfully upon the monster, and ran at it with his
twenty-foot spear. It seemed to me that the spear took it about a foot
below the overhanging armor of the great back shell, and I could see
that it penetrated some distance into the creature, the man having, by
the aid of Providence, stricken it in a vulnerable part. Upon receiving
this thrust, the mighty crab ceased at once its pursuit, and clipped at
the haft of the spear with its great mandible, snapping the weapon more
easily than I had done the same thing to a straw. By the time we had
raced up to the men, the one who had stumbled was again upon his feet,
and turning to assist his comrade; but the bo'sun snatched his spear from
him, and leapt forward himself; for the crab was making now at the other
man. Now the bo'sun did not attempt to thrust the spear into the monster;
but instead he made two swift blows at the great protruding eyes, and in
a moment the creature had curled itself up, helpless, save that the huge
claw waved about aimlessly. At that, the bo'sun drew us off, though the
man who had attacked the crab desired to make an end of it, averring that
we should get some very good eating out of it; but to this the bo'sun
would not listen, telling him that it was yet capable of very deadly
mischief, did any but come within reach of its prodigious mandible.

And after this, he bade them look no more for shellfish; but take out the
two fishing-lines which we had, and see if they could catch aught from
some safe ledge on the further side of the hill upon which we had made
our camp. Then he returned to his mending of the boat.

It was a little before the evening came down upon the island, that the
bo'sun ceased work; and, after that, he called to the men, who, having
made an end of their fuel carrying, were standing near, to place the
full breakers--which we had not thought needful to carry to the new
camp on account of their weight--under the upturned boat, some holding
up the gunnel whilst the others pushed them under. Then the bo'sun laid
the unfinished batten along with them, and we lowered the boat again
over all, trusting to its weight to prevent any creature from meddling
with aught.

After that, we made at once to the camp, being wearifully tired, and with
a hearty anticipation of supper. Upon reaching the hilltop, the men whom
the bo'sun had sent with the lines, came to show him a very fine fish,
something like to a huge king-fish, which they had caught a few minutes
earlier. This, the bo'sun, after examining, did not hesitate to pronounce
fit for food; whereupon they set-to and opened and cleaned it. Now, as I
have said, it was not unlike a great king-fish, and like it, had a mouth
full of very formidable teeth; the use of which I understood the better
when I saw the contents of its stomach, which seemed to consist of
nothing but the coiled tentacles of squid or cuttlefish, with which, as I
have shown, the weed-continent swarmed. When these were upset upon the
rock, I was confounded to perceive the length and thickness of some of
them; and could only conceive that this particular fish must be a very
desperate enemy to them, and able successfully to attack monsters of a
bulk infinitely greater than its own.

After this, and whilst the supper was preparing, the bo'sun called to
some of the men to put up a piece of the spare canvas upon a couple of
the reeds, so as to make a screen against the wind, which up there was
so fresh that it came near at times to scattering the fire abroad. This
they found not difficult; for a little on the windward side of the fire
there ran one of the cracks of which I have made previous mention, and
into this they jammed the supports, and so in a very little time had the
fire screened.

Presently, the supper was ready, and I found the fish to be very fair
eating; though somewhat coarse; but this was no great matter for concern
with so empty a stomach as I contained. And here I would remark, that we
made our fishing save our provisions through all our stay on the island.
Then, after we had come to an end of our eating, we lay down to a most
comfortable smoke; for we had no fear of attack, at that height, and with
precipices upon all sides save that which lay in front. Yet, so soon as
we had rested and smoked a while, the bo'sun set the watches; for he
would run no risk through carelessness.

By this time the night was drawing on apace; yet it was not so dark but
that one could perceive matters at a very reasonable distance. Presently,
being in a mood that tended to thoughtfulness, and feeling a desire to be
alone for a little, I strolled away from the fire to the leeward edge of
the hilltop. Here, I paced up and down awhile, smoking and meditating.
Anon, I would stare out across the immensity of the vast continent of
weed and slime that stretched its incredible desolation out beyond the
darkening horizon, and there would come the thought to me of the terror
of men whose vessels had been entangled among its strange growths, and so
my thoughts came to the lone derelict that lay out there in the dusk, and
I fell to wondering what had been the end of her people, and at that I
grew yet more solemn in my heart. For it seemed to me that they must have
died at last by starvation, and if not by that, then by the act of some
one of the devil-creatures which inhabited that lonely weed-world. And
then, even as I fell upon this thought, the bo'sun clapped me upon the
shoulder, and told me in a very hearty way to come to the light of the
fire, and banish all melancholy thoughts; for he had a very penetrating
discernment, and had followed me quietly from the camping place, having
had reason once or twice before to chide me for gloomy meditations. And
for this, and many other matters, I had grown to like the man, the which
I could almost believe at times, was his regarding of me; but his words
were too few for me to gather his feelings; though I had hope that they
were as I surmised.

And so I came back to the fire, and presently, it not being my time to
watch until after midnight, I turned into the tent for a spell of sleep,
having first arranged a comfortable spread of some of the softer portions
of the dry weed to make me a bed.

Now I was very full of sleep, so that I slept heavily, and in this wise
heard not the man on watch call the bo'sun; yet the rousing of the others
waked me, and so I came to myself and found the tent empty, at which I
ran very hurriedly to the doorway, and so discovered that there was a
clear moon in the sky, the which, by reason of the cloudiness that had
prevailed, we had been without for the past two nights. Moreover, the
sultriness had gone, the wind having blown it away with the clouds; yet
though, maybe, I appreciated this, it was but in a half-conscious manner;
for I was put about to discover the whereabouts of the men, and the
reason of their leaving the tent. With this purpose, I stepped out from
the entrance, and the following instant discovered them all in a clump
beside the leeward edge of the hilltop. At that, I held my tongue; for I
knew not but that silence might be their desire; but I ran hastily over
to them, and inquired of the bo'sun what manner of thing it was which
called them from their sleep, and he, for answer, pointed out into the
greatness of the weed-continent.

At that, I stared out over the breadth of the weed, showing very ghostly
in the moonlight; but, for the moment, I saw not the thing to which he
purposed to draw my attention. Then, suddenly, it fell within the circle
of my gaze--a little light out in the lonesomeness. For the space of some
moments, I stared with bewildered eyes; then it came to me with
abruptness that the light shone from the lone derelict lying out in the
weed, the same that upon that very evening, I had looked with sorrow and
awe, because of the end of those who had been in her--and now, behold, a
light burning, seemingly within one of her after cabins; though the moon
was scarce powerful enough to enable the outline of the hulk to be seen
clear of the rounding wilderness.

And from this time, until the day, we had no more sleep; but made up the
fire, and sat round it, full of excitement and wonder, and getting up
continually to discover if the light still burned. This it ceased to do
about an hour after I had first seen it; but it was the more proof that
some of our kind were no more than the half of a mile from our camp.

And at last the day came.




XI

The Signals from the Ship


Now so soon as it was clearly light, we went all of us to the leeward
brow of the hill to stare upon the derelict, which now we had cause to
believe no derelict, but an inhabited vessel. Yet though we watched her
for upwards of two hours, we could discover no sign of any living
creature, the which, indeed, had we been in cooler minds, we had not
thought strange, seeing that she was all so shut in by the great
superstructure; but we were hot to see a fellow creature, after so much
lonesomeness and terror in strange lands and seas, and so could not by
any means contain ourselves in patience until those aboard the hulk
should choose to discover themselves to us.

And so, at last, being wearied with watching, we made it up together to
shout when the bo'sun should give us the signal, by this means making a
good volume of sound which we conceived the wind might carry down to the
vessel. Yet though we raised many shouts, making as it seemed to us a
very great noise, there came no response from the ship, and at last we
were fain to cease from our calling, and ponder some other way of
bringing ourselves to the notice of those within the hulk.

For a while we talked, some proposing one thing, and some another; but
none of them seeming like to achieve our purpose. And after that we fell
to marveling that the fire which we had lit in the valley had not
awakened them to the fact that some of their fellow creatures were upon
the island; for, had it, we could not suppose but that they would have
kept a perpetual watch upon the island until such time as they should
have been able to attract our notice. Nay! more than this, it was scarce
credible that they should not have made an answering fire, or set some of
their bunting above the superstructure, so that our gaze should be
arrested upon the instant we chanced to glance towards the hulk. But so
far from this, there appeared even a purpose to shun our attention; for
that light which we had viewed in the past night was more in the way of
an accident, than of the nature of a purposeful exhibition.

And so, presently, we went to breakfast, eating heartily; our night of
wakefulness having given us mighty appetites; but, for all that, we were
so engrossed by the mystery of the lonesome craft, that I doubt if any of
us knew what manner of food it was with which we filled our bellies. For
first one view of the matter would be raised, and when this had been
combated, another would be broached, and in this wise it came up finally
that some of the men were falling in doubt whether the ship was inhabited
by anything human, saying rather that it might be held by some demoniac
creature of the great weed-continent. At this proposition, there came
among us a very uncomfortable silence; for not only did it chill the
warmth of our hopes; but seemed like to provide us with a fresh terror,
who were already acquainted with too much. Then the bo'sun spoke,
laughing with a hearty contempt at our sudden fears, and pointed out
that it was just as like that they aboard the ship had been put in fear
by the great blaze from the valley, as that they should take it for a
sign that fellow creatures and friends were at hand. For, as he put it to
us, who of us could say what fell brutes and demons the weed-continent
did hold, and if we had reason to know that there were very dread things
among the weed, how much the more must they, who had, for all that we
knew, been many years beset around by such. And so, as he went on to make
clear, we might suppose that they were very well aware there had come
some creatures to the island; yet, maybe, they desired not to make
themselves known until they had been given sight of them, and because of
this, we must wait until they chose to discover themselves to us.

Now when the bo'sun had made an end, we felt each one of us greatly
cheered; for his discourse seemed very reasonable. Yet still there were
many matters that troubled our company; for, as one put it, was it not
mightily strange that we had not had previous sight of their light, or,
in the day, of the smoke from their galley fire? But to this the bo'sun
replied that our camp hitherto had lain in a place where we had not
sight, even of the great world of weed, leaving alone any view of the
derelict. And more, that at such times as we had crossed to the opposite
beach, we had been occupied too sincerely to have much thought to watch
the hulk, which, indeed, from that position showed only her great
superstructure. Further, that, until the preceding day, we had but once
climbed to any height; and that from our present camp the derelict could
not be viewed, and to do so, we had to go near to the leeward edge of
the hill-top.

And so, breakfast being ended, we went all of us to see if there were yet
any signs of life in the hulk; but when an hour had gone, we were no
wiser. Therefore, it being folly to waste further time, the bo'sun left
one man to watch from the brow of the hill, charging him very strictly to
keep in such position that he could be seen by any aboard the silent
craft, and so took the rest down to assist him in the repairing of the
boat. And from thence on, during the day, he gave the men a turn each at
watching, telling them to wave to him should there come any sign from the
hulk. Yet, excepting the watch, he kept every man so busy as might be,
some bringing weed to keep up a fire which he had lit near the boat; one
to help him turn and hold the batten upon which he labored; and two he
sent across to the wreck of the mast, to detach one of the futtock
shrouds, which (as is most rare) were made of iron rods. This, when they
brought it, he bade me heat in the fire, and afterwards beat out straight
at one end, and when this was done, he set me to burn holes with it
through the keel of the boat, at such places as he had marked, these
being for the bolts with which he had determined to fasten on the batten.

In the meanwhile, he continued to shape the batten until it was a very
good and true fit according to his liking. And all the while he cried out
to this man and to that one to do this or that; and so I perceived that,
apart from the necessity of getting the boat into a seaworthy condition,
he was desirous to keep the men busied; for they were become so excited
at the thought of fellow creatures almost within hail, that he could not
hope to keep them sufficiently in hand without some matter upon which to
employ them.

Now, it must not be supposed that the bo'sun had no share of our
excitement; for I noticed that he gave ever and anon a glance to the
crown of the far hill, perchance the watchman had some news for us. Yet
the morning went by, and no signal came to tell us that the people in the
ship had design to show themselves to the man upon watch, and so we came
to dinner. At this meal, as might be supposed, we had a second
discussion upon the strangeness of the behavior of those aboard the hulk;
yet none could give any more reasonable explanation than the bo'sun had
given in the morning, and so we left it at that.

Presently, when we had smoked and rested very comfortably, for the bo'sun
was no tyrant, we rose at his bidding to descend once more to the beach.
But at this moment, one of the men having run to the edge of the hill to
take a short look at the hulk, cried out that a part of the great
superstructure over the quarter had been removed, or pushed back, and
that there was a figure there, seeming, so far as his unaided sight could
tell, to be looking through a spy-glass at the island. Now it would be
difficult to tell of all our excitement at this news, and we ran eagerly
to see for ourselves if it could be as he informed us. And so it was; for
we could see the person very clearly; though remote and small because of
the distance. That he had seen us, we discovered in a moment; for he
began suddenly to wave something, which I judged to be the spy-glass, in
a very wild manner, seeming also to be jumping up and down. Yet, I doubt
not but that we were as much excited; for suddenly I discovered myself to
be shouting with the rest in a most insane fashion, and more-over I was
waving my hands and running to and fro upon the brow of the hill. Then, I
observed that the figure on the hulk had disappeared; but it was for no
more than a moment, and then it was back and there were near a dozen with
it, and it seemed to me that some of them were females; but the distance
was over great for surety. Now these, all of them, seeing us upon the
brow of the hill, where we must have shown up plain against the sky,
began at once to wave in a very frantic way, and we, replying in like
manner, shouted ourselves hoarse with vain greetings. But soon we grew
wearied of the unsatisfactoriness of this method of showing our
excitement, and one took a piece of the square canvas, and let it stream
out into the wind, waving it to them, and another took a second piece and
did likewise, while a third man rolled up a short bit into a cone and
made use of it as a speaking trumpet; though I doubt if his voice carried
any the further because of it. For my part, I had seized one of the long
bamboo-like reeds which were lying about near the fire, and with this I
was making a very brave show. And so it may be seen how very great and
genuine was our exaltation upon our discovery of these poor people shut
off from the world within that lonesome craft.

Then, suddenly, it seemed to come to us to realize that _they_ were among
the weed, and _we_ upon the hilltop, and that we had no means of bridging
that which lay between. And at this we faced one another to discuss what
we should do to effect the rescue of those within the hulk. Yet it was
little that we could even suggest; for though one spoke of how he had
seen a rope cast by means of a mortar to a ship that lay off shore, yet
this helped us not, for we had no mortar; but here the same man cried out
that they in the ship might have such a thing, so that they would be able
to shoot the rope to us, and at this we thought more upon his saying; for
if they had such a weapon, then might our difficulties be solved. Yet we
were greatly at a loss to know how we should discover whether they were
possessed of one, and further to explain our design to them. But here the
bo'sun came to our help, and bade one man go quickly and char some of the
reeds in the fire, and whilst this was doing he spread out upon the rock
one of the spare lengths of canvas; then he sung out to the man to bring
him one of the pieces of charred reed, and with this he wrote our
question upon the canvas, calling for fresh charcoal as he required it.
Then, having made an end of writing, he bade two of the men take hold of
the canvas by the ends and expose it to the view of those in the ship,
and in this manner we got them to understand our desires. For, presently,
some of them went away, and came back after a little, and held up for us
to see, a very great square of white, and upon it a great "NO," and at
this were we again at our wits' ends to know how it would be possible to
rescue those within the ship; for, suddenly, our whole desire to leave
the island, was changed into a determination to rescue the people in the
hulk, and, indeed, had our intentions not been such we had been veritable
curs; though I am happy to tell that we had no thought at this juncture
but for those who were now looking to us to restore them once more to the
world to which they had been so long strangers.

Now, as I have said, we were again at our wits' ends to know how to come
at those within the hulk, and there we stood all of us, talking together,
perchance we should hit upon some plan, and anon we would turn and wave
to those who watched us so anxiously. Yet, a while passed, and we had
come no nearer to a method of rescue. Then a thought came to me (waked
perchance by the mention of shooting the rope over to the hulk by means
of a mortar) how that I had read once in a book, of a fair maid whose
lover effected her escape from a castle by a similar artifice, only that
in his case he made use of a bow in place of a mortar, and a cord instead
of a rope, his sweetheart hauling up the rope by means of the cord.

Now it seemed to me a possible thing to substitute a bow for the mortar,
if only we could find the material with which to make such a weapon, and
with this in view, I took up one of the lengths of the bamboo-like reed,
and tried the spring of it, which I found to be very good; for this
curious growth, of which I have spoken hitherto as a reed, had no
resemblance to that plant, beyond its appearance; it being
extraordinarily tough and woody, and having considerably more nature
than a bamboo. Now, having tried the spring of it, I went over to the
tent and cut a piece of sampsonline which I found among the gear, and
with this and the reed I contrived a rough bow. Then I looked about until
I came upon a very young and slender reed which had been cut with the
rest, and from this I fashioned some sort of an arrow, feathering it with
a piece of one of the broad, stiff leaves, which grew upon the plant, and
after that I went forth to the crowd about the leeward edge of the hill.
Now when they saw me thus armed, they seemed to think that I intended a
jest, and some of them laughed, conceiving that it was a very odd action
on my part; but when I explained that which was in my mind, they ceased
from laughter, and shook their heads, making that I did but waste time;
for, as they said, nothing save gunpowder could cover so great a
distance. And after that they turned again to the bo'sun with whom some
of them seemed to be in argument. And so for a little space I held my
peace, and listened; thus I discovered that certain of the men advocated
the taking of the boat--so soon as it was sufficiently repaired--and
making a passage through the weed to the ship, which they proposed to do
by cutting a narrow canal. But the bo'sun shook his head, and reminded
them of the great devil-fish and crabs, and the worse things which the
weed concealed, saying that those in the ship would have done it long
since had it been possible, and at that the men were silenced, being
robbed of their unreasoning ardor by his warnings.

Now just at this point there happened a thing which proved the wisdom of
that which the bo'sun contended; for, suddenly, one of the men cried out
to us to look, and at that we turned quickly, and saw that there was a
great commotion among those who were in the open place in the
superstructure; for they were running this way and that, and some were
pushing to the slide which filled the opening. And then, immediately, we
saw the reason for their agitation and haste; for there was a stir in the
weed near to the stem of the ship, and the next instant, monstrous
tentacles were reached up to the place where had been the opening; but
the door was shut, and those aboard the hulk in safety. At this
manifestation, the men about me who had proposed to make use of the boat,
and the others also, cried out their horror of the vast creature, and, I
am convinced, had the rescue depended upon their use of the boat, then
had those in the hulk been forever doomed.

Now, conceiving that this was a good point at which to renew my
importunities, I began once again to explain the probabilities of my plan
succeeding, addressing myself more particularly to the bo'sun. I told how
that I had read that the ancients made mighty weapons, some of which
could throw a great stone so heavy as two men, over a distance surpassing
a quarter of a mile; moreover, that they compassed huge catapults which
threw a lance, or great arrow, even further. On this, he expressed much
surprise, never having heard of the like; but doubted greatly that we
should be able to construct such a weapon. Yet, I told him that I was
prepared; for I had the plan of one clearly in my mind, and further I
pointed out to him that we had the wind in our favor, and that we were a
great height up, which would allow the arrow to travel the farther before
it came so low as the weed.

Then I stepped to the edge of the hill, and, bidding him watch, fitted my
arrow to the string, and, having bent the bow, loosed it, whereupon,
being aided by the wind and the height on which I stood, the arrow
plunged into the weed at a distance of near two hundred yards from where
we stood, that being about a quarter of the distance on the road to the
derelict. At that, the bo'sun was won over to my idea; though, as he
remarked, the arrow had fallen nearer had it been drawing a length of
yarn after it, and to this I assented; but pointed out that my bow and
arrow was but a rough affair, and, more, that I was no archer; yet I
promised him, with the bow that I should make, to cast a shaft clean over
the hulk, did he but give me his assistance, and bid the men to help.

Now, as I have come to regard it in the light of greater knowledge, my
promise was exceeding rash; but I had faith in my conception, and was
very eager to put it to the test; the which, after much discussion at
supper, it was decided I should be allowed to do.




XII

The Making of the Great Bow


The fourth night upon the island was the first to pass without incident.
It is true that a light showed from the hulk out in the weed; but now
that we had made some acquaintance with her inmates, it was no longer a
cause for excitement, so much as contemplation. As for the valley where
the vile things had made an end of Job, it was very silent and desolate
under the moonlight; for I made a point to go and view it during my time
on watch; yet, for all that it lay empty, it was very eerie, and a place
to conjure up uncomfortable thoughts, so that I spent no great time
pondering it.

This was the second night on which we had been free from the terror of
the devil-things, and it seemed to me that the great fire had put them in
fear of us and driven them away; but of the truth or error of this idea,
I was to learn later.

Now it must be admitted that, apart from a short look into the valley,
and occasional starings at the light out in the weed, I gave little
attention to aught but my plans for the great bow, and to such use did I
put my time, that when I was relieved, I had each particular and detail
worked out, so that I knew very well just what to set the men doing so
soon as we should make a start in the morning.

Presently, when the morning had come, and we had made an end of
breakfast, we turned-to upon the great bow, the bo'sun directing the men
under my supervision. Now, the first matter to which I bent attention,
was the raising, to the top of the hill, of the remaining half of that
portion of the topmast which the bo'sun had split in twain to procure the
batten for the boat. To this end, we went down, all of us, to the beach
where lay the wreckage, and, getting about the portion which I intended
to use, carried it to the foot of the hill; then we sent a man to the top
to let down the rope by which we had moored the boat to the sea anchor,
and when we had bent this on securely to the piece of timber, we returned
to the hill-top, and tailed on to the rope, and so, presently, after much
weariful pulling, had it up.

The next thing I desired was that the split face of the timber should be
rubbed straight, and this the bo'sun understood to do, and whilst he was
about it, I went with some of the men to the grove of reeds, and here,
with great care, I made a selection of some of the finest, these being
for the bow, and after that I cut some which were very clean and
straight, intending them for the great arrows. With these we returned
once more to the camp, and there I set-to and trimmed them of their
leaves, keeping these latter, for I had a use for them. Then I took a
dozen reeds and cut them each to a length of twenty-five feet, and
afterwards notched them for the strings. In the meanwhile, I had sent
two men down to the wreckage of the masts to cut away a couple of the
hempen shrouds and bring them to the camp, and they, appearing about
this time, I set to work to unlay the shrouds, so that they might get
out the fine white yarns which lay beneath the outer covering of tar
and blacking. These, when they had come at them, we found to be very
good and sound, and this being so, I bid them make three-yarn sennit;
meaning it for the strings of the bows. Now, it will be observed that I
have said bows, and this I will explain. It had been my original
intention to make one great bow, lashing a dozen of the reeds together
for the purpose; but this, upon pondering it, I conceived to be but a
poor plan; for there would be much life and power lost in the rendering
of each piece through the lashings, when the bow was released. To
obviate this, and further, to compass the bending of the bow, the which
had, at first, been a source of puzzlement to me as to how it was to be
accomplished, I had determined to make twelve separate bows, and these I
intended to fasten at the end of the stock one above the other, so that
they were all in one plane vertically, and because of this conception, I
should be able to bend the bows one at a time, and slip each string over
the catch-notch, and afterwards frap the twelve strings together in the
middle part so that they would be but one string to the butt of the
arrow. All this, I explained to the bo'sun, who, indeed, had been
exercised in his own mind as to how we should be able to bend such a bow
as I intended to make, and he was mightily pleased with my method of
evading this difficulty, and also one other, which, else, had been
greater than the bending, and that was the _stringing_ of the bow, which
would have proved a very awkward work.

Presently, the bo'sun called out to me that he had got the surface of the
stock sufficiently smooth and nice; and at that I went over to him; for
now I wished him to burn a slight groove down the center, running from
end to end, and this I desired to be done very exactly; for upon it
depended much of the true flight of the arrow. Then I went back to my own
work; for I had not yet finished notching the bows. Presently, when I
had made an end of this, I called for a length of the sennit, and, with
the aid of another man, contrived to string one of the bows. This, when I
had finished, I found to be very springy, and so stiff to bend that I had
all that I could manage to do so, and at this I felt very satisfied.

Presently, it occurred to me that I should do well to set some of the men
to work upon the line which the arrow was to carry; for I had determined
that this should be made also from the white hemp yarns, and, for the
sake of lightness, I conceived that one thickness of yarn would be
sufficient; but so that it might compass enough of strength, I bid them
split the yarns and lay the two halves up together, and in this manner
they made me a very light and sound line; though it must not be supposed
that it was finished at once; for I needed over half a mile of it, and
thus it was later finished than the bow itself.

Having now gotten all things in train, I set me down to work upon one of
the arrows; for I was anxious to see what sort of a fist I should make of
them, knowing how much would depend upon the balance and truth of the
missile. In the end, I made a very fair one, feathering it with its own
leaves, and truing and smoothing it with my knife; after which I inserted
a small bolt in the forrard end, to act as a head, and, as I conceived,
give it balance; though whether I was right in this latter, I am unable
to say. Yet, before I had finished my arrow, the bo'sun had made the
groove, and called me over to him, that I might admire it, the which I
did; for it was done with a wonderful neatness.

Now I have been so busy with my description of how we made the great bow,
that I have omitted to tell of the flight of time, and how we had eaten
our dinner this long while since, and how that the people in the hulk had
waved to us, and we had returned their signals, and then written upon a
length of the canvas the one word, "WAIT." And, besides all this, some
had gathered our fuel for the coming night.

And so, presently, the evening came upon us; but we ceased not to work;
for the bo'sun bade the men to light a second great fire, beside our
former one, and by the light of this we worked another long spell;
though it seemed short enough, by reason of the interest of the work.
Yet, at last, the bo'sun bade us to stop and make supper, which we did,
and after that, he set the watches, and the rest of us turned in; for we
were very weary.

In spite of my previous weariness, when the man whom I relieved called me
to take my watch, I felt very fresh and wide awake, and spent a great
part of the time, as on the preceding night, in studying over my plans
for completing the great bow, and it was then that I decided finally in
what manner I would secure the bows athwart the end of the stock; for
until then I had been in some little doubt, being divided between several
methods. Now, however, I concluded to make twelve grooves across the sawn
end of the stock, and fit the middles of the bows into these, one above
the other, as I have already mentioned; and then to lash them at each
side to bolts driven into the sides of the stock. And with this idea I
was very well pleased; for it promised to make them secure, and this
without any great amount of work.

Now, though I spent much of my watch in thinking over the details of my
prodigious weapon, yet it must not be supposed that I neglected to
perform my duty as watchman; for I walked continually about the top of
the hill, keeping my cut-and-thrust ready for any sudden emergency. Yet
my time passed off quietly enough; though it is true that I witnessed one
thing which brought me a short spell of disquiet thought. It was in this
wise:--I had come to that part of the hill-top which overhung the valley,
and it came to me, abruptly, to go near to the edge and look over. Thus,
the moon being very bright, and the desolation of the valley reasonably
clear to the eye, it appeared to me, as I looked that I saw a movement
among certain of the fungi which had not burnt, but stood up shriveled
and blackened in the valley. Yet by no means could I be sure that it was
not a sudden fancy, born of the eeriness of that desolate looking vale;
the more so as I was like to be deceived because of the uncertainty which
the light of the moon gives. Yet, to prove my doubts, I went back until I
had found a piece of rock easy to throw, and this, taking a short run, I
cast into the valley, aiming at the spot where it had seemed to me that
there had been a movement. Immediately upon this, I caught a glimpse of
some moving thing, and then, more to my right, something else stirred,
and at this, I looked towards it; but could discover nothing. Then,
looking back at the clump at which I had aimed my missile, I saw that the
slime covered pool, which lay near, was all a-quiver, or so it seemed.
Yet the next instant I was just as full of doubt; for, even as I watched
it, I perceived that it was quite still. And after that, for some time, I
kept a very strict gaze into the valley; yet could nowhere discover aught
to prove my suspicions, and, at last, I ceased from watching it; for I
feared to grow fanciful, and so wandered to that part of the hill which
overlooked the weed.

Presently, when I had been relieved, I returned to sleep, and so till the
morning. Then, when we had made each of us a hasty breakfast--for all
were grown mightily keen to see the great bow completed--we set-to upon
it, each at our appointed task. Thus, the bo'sun and I made it our work
to make the twelve grooves athwart the flat end of the stock, into which
I proposed to fit and lash the bows, and this we accomplished by means of
the iron futtock-shroud, which we heated in its middle part, and then,
each taking an end (protecting our hands with canvas), we went one on
each side and applied the iron until at length we had the grooves burnt
out very nicely and accurately. This work occupied us all the morning;
for the grooves had to be deeply burnt; and in the meantime the men had
completed near enough sennit for the stringing of the bows; yet those who
were at work on the line which the arrow was to carry, had scarce made
more than half, so that I called off one man from the sennit to turn-to,
and give them a hand with the making of the line.

When dinner was ended, the bo'sun and I set-to about fitting the bows
into their places, which we did, and lashed them to twenty-four bolts,
twelve a side, driven into the timber of the stock, about twelve inches
in from the end. After this, we bent and strung the bows, taking very
great care to have each bent exactly as the one below it; for we started
at the bottom. And so, before sunset, we had that part of our work ended.

Now, because the two fires which we had lit on the previous night had
exhausted our fuel, the bo'sun deemed it prudent to cease work, and go
down all of us to bring up a fresh supply of the dry seaweed and some
bundles of the reeds. This we did, making an end of our journeyings just
as the dusk came over the island. Then, having made a second fire, as on
the preceding night, we had first our supper, and after that another
spell of work, all the men turning to upon the line which the arrow was
to carry, whilst the bo'sun and I set-to, each of us, upon the making of
a fresh arrow; for I had realized that we should have to make one or two
flights before we could hope to find our range and make true our aim.

Later, maybe about nine of the night, the bo'sun bade us all to put away
our work, and then he set the watches, after which the rest of us went
into the tent to sleep; for the strength of the wind made the shelter a
very pleasant thing.

That night, when it came my turn to watch, I minded me to take a look
into the valley; but though I watched at intervals through the half of an
hour, I saw nothing to lead me to imagine that I had indeed seen aught on
the previous night, and so I felt more confident in my mind that we
should be troubled no further by the devil-things which had destroyed
poor Job. Yet I must record one thing which I saw during my watch; though
this was from the edge of the hilltop which overlooked the
weed-continent, and was not in the valley, but in the stretch of clear
water which lay between the island and the weed. As I saw it, it seemed
to me that a number of great fish were swimming across from the island,
diagonally towards the great continent of weed: they were swimming in one
wake, and keeping a very regular line; but not breaking the water after
the manner of porpoises or black fish. Yet, though I have mentioned this,
it must not be supposed that I saw any very strange thing in such a
sight, and indeed, I thought nothing more of it than to wonder what sort
of fish they might be; for, as I saw them indistinctly in the moonlight,
they made a queer appearance, seeming each of them to be possessed of two
tails, and further, I could have thought I perceived a flicker as of
tentacles just beneath the surface; but of this I was by no means sure.

Upon the following morning, having hurried our breakfast, each of us
set-to again upon our tasks; for we were in hopes to have the great bow
at work before dinner. Soon, the bo'sun had finished his arrow, and mine
was completed very shortly after, so that there lacked nothing now to
the completion of our work, save the finishing of the line, and the
getting of the bow into position. This latter, assisted by the men, we
proceeded now to effect, making a level bed of rocks near the edge of
the hill which overlooked the weed. Upon this we placed the great bow,
and then, having sent the men back to their work at the line, we
proceeded to the aiming of the huge weapon. Now, when we had gotten the
instrument pointed, as we conceived, straight over the hulk, the which
we accomplished by squinting along the groove which the bo'sun had burnt
down the center of the stock, we turned-to upon the arranging of the
notch and trigger, the notch being to hold the strings when the weapon
was set, and the trigger--a board bolted on loosely at the side just
below the notch--to push them upwards out of this place when we desired
to discharge the bow. This part of the work took up no great portion of
our time, and soon we had all ready for our first flight. Then we
commenced to set the bows, bending the bottom one first, and then those
above in turn, until all were set; and, after that, we laid the arrow
very carefully in the groove. Then I took two pieces of spun yarn and
frapped the strings together at each end of the notch, and by this means
I was assured that all the strings would act in unison when striking the
butt of the arrow. And so we had all things ready for the discharge;
whereupon, I placed my foot upon the trigger, and, bidding the bo'sun
watch carefully the flight of the arrow, pushed downwards. The next
instant, with a mighty twang, and a quiver that made the great stock
stir on its bed of rocks, the bow sprang to its lesser tension, hurling
the arrow outwards and upwards in a vast arc. Now, it may be conceived
with what mortal interest we watched its flight, and so in a minute
discovered that we had aimed too much to the right, for the arrow struck
the weed ahead of the hulk--but _beyond_ it. At that, I was filled near
to bursting with pride and joy, and the men who had come forward to
witness the trial, shouted to acclaim my success, whilst the bo'sun
clapped me twice upon the shoulder to signify his regard, and shouted as
loud as any.

And now it seemed to me that we had but to get the true aim, and the
rescue of those in the hulk would be but a matter of another day or two;
for, having once gotten a line to the hulk, we should haul across a thin
rope by its means, and with this a thicker one; after which we should set
this up so taut as possible, and then bring the people in the hulk to the
island by means of a seat and block which we should haul to and fro along
the supporting line.

Now, having realized that the bow would indeed carry so far as the wreck,
we made haste to try our second arrow, and at the same time we bade the
men go back to their work upon the line; for we should have need of it in
a very little while. Presently, having pointed the bow more to the left,
I took the frappings off the strings, so that we could bend the bows
singly, and after that we set the great weapon again. Then, seeing that
the arrow was straight in the groove, I replaced the frappings, and
immediately discharged it. This time, to my very great pleasure and
pride, the arrow went with a wonderful straightness towards the ship,
and, clearing the superstructure, passed out of our sight as it fell
behind it. At this, I was all impatience to try to get the line to the
hulk before we made our dinner; but the men had not yet laid-up
sufficient; there being then only four hundred and fifty fathoms (which
the bo'sun measured off by stretching it along his arms and across his
chest). This being so, we went to dinner, and made very great haste
through it; and, after that, every one of us worked at the line, and so
in about an hour we had sufficient; for I had estimated that it would not
be wise to make the attempt with a less length than five hundred fathoms.

Having now completed a sufficiency of the line, the bo'sun set one of the
men to flake it down very carefully upon the rock beside the bow, whilst
he himself tested it at all such parts as he thought in any way doubtful,
and so, presently, all was ready. Then I bent it on to the arrow, and,
having set the bow whilst the men were flaking down the line, I was
prepared immediately to discharge the weapon.

Now, all the morning, a man upon the hulk had observed us through a
spy-glass, from a position that brought his head just above the edge of
the superstructure, and, being aware of our intentions--having watched
the previous flights--he understood the bo'sun, when he beckoned to him,
that we had made ready for a third shot, and so, with an answering wave
of his spy-glass, he disappeared from our sight. At that, having first
turned to see that all were clear of the line, I pressed down the
trigger, my heart beating very fast and thick, and so in a moment the
arrow was sped. But now, doubtless because of the weight of the line, it
made nowhere near so good a flight as on the previous occasion, the arrow
striking the weed some two hundred yards short of the hulk, and at this,
I could near have wept with vexation and disappointment.

Immediately upon the failure of my shot, the bo'sun called to the men to
haul in the line very carefully, so that it should not be parted through
the arrow catching in the weed; then he came over to me, and proposed
that we should set-to at once to make a heavier arrow, suggesting that it
had been lack of weight in the missile which had caused it to fall short.
At that, I felt once more hopeful, and turned-to at once to prepare a new
arrow; the bo'sun doing likewise; though in his case he intended to make
a lighter one than that which had failed; for, as he put it, though the
heavier one fell short, yet might the lighter succeed, and if neither,
then we could only suppose that the bow lacked power to carry the line,
and in that case, we should have to try some other method.

Now, in about two hours, I had made my arrow, the bo'sun having finished
his a little earlier, and so (the men having hauled in all the line and
flaked it down ready) we prepared to make another attempt to cast it
over the hulk. Yet, a second time we failed, and by so much that it
seemed hopeless to think of success; but, for all that it appeared
useless, the bo'sun insisted on making a last try with the light arrow,
and, presently, when we had gotten the line ready again, we loosed upon
the wreck; but in this case so lamentable was our failure, that I cried
out to the bo'sun to set the useless thing upon the fire and burn it;
for I was sorely irked by its failure, and could scarce abide to speak
civilly of it.

Now the bo'sun, perceiving how I felt, sung out that we would cease
troubling about the hulk for the present, and go down all of us to gather
reeds and weed for the fire; for it was drawing nigh to evening. And this
we did, though all in a disconsolate condition of mind; for we had seemed
so near to success, and now it appeared to be further than ever from us.
And so, in a while, having brought up a sufficiency of fuel, the bo'sun
sent two of the men down to one of the ledges which overhung the sea, and
bade them see whether they could not secure a fish for our supper. Then,
taking our places about the fire, we fell-to upon a discussion as to how
we should come at the people in the hulk.

Now, for a while there came no suggestion worthy of notice, until at last
there occurred to me a notable idea, and I called out suddenly that we
should make a small fire balloon, and float off the line to them by such
means. At that, the men about the fire were silent a moment; for the idea
was new to them, and moreover they needed to comprehend just what I
meant. Then, when they had come fully at it, the one who had proposed
that they should make spears of their knives, cried out to know why a
kite would not do, and at that I was confounded, in that so simple an
expedient had not occurred to any before; for, surely, it would be but a
little matter to float a line to them by means of a kite, and, further,
such a thing would take no great making.

And so, after a space of talk, it was decided that upon the morrow we
should build some sort of kite, and with it fly a line over the hulk, the
which should be a task of no great difficulty with so good a breeze as we
had continually with us.

And, presently, having made our supper off a very fine fish, which the
two fishermen had caught whilst we talked, the bo'sun set the watches,
and the rest turned-in.




XIII

The Weed Men


Now, on that night, when I came to my watch, I discovered that there was
no moon, and, save for such light as the fire threw, the hill-top was in
darkness; yet this was no great matter to trouble me; for we had been
unmolested since the burning of the fungi in the valley, and thus I had
lost much of the haunting fear which had beset me upon the death of Job.
Yet, though I was not so much afraid as I had been, I took all
precautions that suggested themselves to me, and built up the fire to a
goodly height, after which I took my cut-and-thrust, and made the round
of the camping place. At the edges of the cliffs which protected us on
three sides, I made some pause, staring down into the darkness, and
listening; though this latter was of but small use because of the
strength of the wind which roared continually in my ears. Yet though I
neither saw nor heard anything, I was presently possessed of a strange
uneasiness, which made me return twice or thrice to the edge of the
cliffs; but always without seeing or hearing anything to justify my
superstitions. And so, presently, being determined to give way to no
fancifulness, I avoided the boundary of cliffs, and kept more to that
part which commanded the slope, up and down which we made our journeys
to and from the island below.

Then, it would be near halfway through my time of watching, there came to
me out of the immensity of weed that lay to leeward, a far distant sound
that grew upon my ear, rising and rising into a fearsome screaming and
shrieking, and then dying away into the distance in queer sobs, and so at
last to a note below that of the wind's. At this, as might be supposed, I
was somewhat shaken in myself to hear so dread a noise coming out of all
that desolation, and then, suddenly, the thought came to me that the
screaming was from the ship to leeward of us, and I ran immediately to
the edge of the cliff overlooking the weed, and stared into the darkness;
but now I perceived, by a light which burned in the hulk, that the
screaming had come from some place a great distance to the right of her,
and more, as my sense assured me, it could by no means have been possible
for those in her to have sent their voices to me against such a breeze as
blew at that time.

And so, for a space, I stood nervously pondering, and peering away into
the blackness of the night; thus, in a little, I perceived a dull glow
upon the horizon, and, presently, there rose into view the upper edge of
the moon, and a very welcome sight it was to me; for I had been upon the
point of calling the bo'sun to inform him regarding the sound which I had
heard; but I had hesitated, being afraid to seem foolish if nothing
should befall. Then, even as I stood watching the moon rise into view,
there came again to me the beginning of that screaming, somewhat like to
the sound of a woman sobbing with a giant's voice, and it grew and
strengthened until it pierced through the roar of the wind with an
amazing clearness, and then slowly, and seeming to echo and echo, it sank
away into the distance, and there was again in my ears no sound beyond
that of the wind.

At this, having looked fixedly in the direction from which the sound had
proceeded, I ran straightway to the tent and roused the bo'sun; for I had
no knowledge of what the noise might portend, and this second cry had
shaken from me all my bashfulness. Now the bo'sun was upon his feet
almost before I had made an end of shaking him, and catching up his great
cutlass which he kept always by his side, he followed me swiftly out on
to the hill-top. Here, I explained to him that I had heard a very
fearsome sound which had appeared to proceed out of the vastness of the
weed-continent, and that, upon a repetition of the noise, I had decided
to call him; for I knew not but that it might signal to us of some coming
danger. At that, the bo'sun commended me; though chiding me in that I had
hesitated to call him at the first occurrence of the crying, and then,
following me to the edge of the leeward cliff, he stood there with me,
waiting and listening, perchance there might come again a recurrence of
the noise.

For perhaps something over an hour we stood there very silent and
listening; but there came to us no sound beyond the continuous noise of
the wind, and so, by that time, having grown somewhat impatient of
waiting, and the moon being well risen, the bo'sun beckoned to me to make
the round of the camp with him. Now, just as I turned away, chancing to
look downward at the clear water directly below, I was amazed to see that
an innumerable multitude of great fish, like unto those which I had seen
on the previous night, were swimming from the weed-continent towards the
island. At that, I stepped nearer the edge; for they came so directly
towards the island that I expected to see them close inshore; yet I could
not perceive one; for they seemed all of them to vanish at a point some
thirty yards distant from the beach, and at that, being amazed both by
the numbers of the fish and their strangeness, and the way in which they
came on continually, yet never reached the shore, I called to the bo'sun
to come and see; for he had gone on a few paces. Upon hearing my call, he
came running back; whereat I pointed into the sea below. At that, he
stooped forward and peered very intently, and I with him; yet neither one
of us could discover the meaning of so curious an exhibition, and so for
a while we watched, the bo'sun being quite so much interested as I.

Presently, however, he turned away, saying that we did foolishly to stand
here peering at every curious sight, when we should be looking to the
welfare of the camp, and so we began to go the round of the hill-top.
Now, whilst we had been watching and listening, we had suffered the fire
to die down to a most unwise lowness, and consequently, though the moon
was rising, there was by no means the same brightness that should have
made the camp light. On perceiving this, I went forward to throw some
fuel on to the fire, and then, even as I moved, it seemed to me that I
saw something stir in the shadow of the tent. And at that, I ran towards
the place, uttering a shout, and waving my cut-and-thrust; yet I found
nothing, and so, feeling somewhat foolish, I turned to make up the fire,
as had been my intention, and whilst I was thus busied, the bo'sun came
running over to me to know what I had seen, and in the same instant there
ran three of the men out of the tent, all of them waked by my sudden cry.
But I had naught to tell them, save that my fancy had played me a trick,
and had shown me something where my eyes could find nothing, and at that,
two of the men went back to resume their sleep; but the third, the big
fellow to whom the bo'sun had given the other cutlass, came with us,
bringing his weapon; and, though he kept silent, it seemed to me that he
had gathered something of our uneasiness; and for my part I was not sorry
to have his company.

Presently, we came to that portion of the hill which overhung the
valley, and I went to the edge of the cliff, intending to peer over; for
the valley had a very unholy fascination for me. Yet, no sooner had I
glanced down than I started, and ran back to the bo'sun and plucked him
by the sleeve, and at that, perceiving my agitation, he came with me in
silence to see what matter had caused me so much quiet excitement. Now,
when he looked over, he also was astounded, and drew back instantly;
then, using great caution, he bent forward once more, and stared down,
and, at that, the big seaman came up behind, walking upon his toes, and
stooped to see what manner of thing we had discovered. Thus we each of us
stared down upon a most unearthly sight; for the valley all beneath us
was a-swarm with moving creatures, white and unwholesome in the
moonlight, and their movements were somewhat like the movements of
monstrous slugs, though the things themselves had no resemblance to such
in their contours; but minded me of naked humans, very fleshy and
crawling upon their stomachs; yet their movements lacked not a surprising
rapidity. And now, looking a little over the bo'sun's shoulder, I
discovered that these hideous things were coming up out from the pit-like
pool in the bottom of the valley, and, suddenly, I was minded of the
multitudes of strange fish which we had seen swimming towards the island;
but which had all disappeared before reaching the shore, and I had no
doubt but that they entered the pit through some natural passage known to
them beneath the water. And now I was made to understand my thought of
the previous night, that I had seen the flicker of tentacles; for these
things below us had each two short and stumpy arms; but the ends appeared
divided into hateful and wriggling masses of small tentacles, which slid
hither and thither as the creatures moved about the bottom of the valley,
and at their hinder ends, where they should have grown feet, there seemed
other flickering bunches; but it must not be supposed that we saw these
things clearly.

Now it is scarcely possible to convey the extraordinary disgust which the
sight of these human slugs bred in me; nor, could I, do I think I would;
for were I successful, then would others be like to retch even as I did,
the spasm coming on without premonition, and born of very horror. And
then, suddenly, even as I stared, sick with loathing and apprehension,
there came into view, not a fathom below my feet, a face like to the face
which had peered up into my own on that night, as we drifted beside the
weed-continent. At that, I could have screamed, had I been in less
terror; for the great eyes, so big as crown pieces, the bill like to an
inverted parrot's, and the slug-like undulating of its white and slimy
body, bred in me the dumbness of one mortally stricken. And, even as I
stayed there, my helpless body bent and rigid, the bo'sun spat a mighty
curse into my ear, and, leaning forward, smote at the thing with his
cutlass; for in the instant that I had seen it, it had advanced upward by
so much as a yard. Now, at this action of the bo'sun's, I came suddenly
into possession of myself, and thrust downward with so much vigor that I
was like to have followed the brute's carcass; for I overbalanced, and
danced giddily for a moment upon the edge of eternity; and then the
bo'sun had me by the waistband, and I was back in safety; but in that
instant through which I had struggled for my balance, I had discovered
that the face of the cliff was near hid with the number of the things
which were making up to us, and I turned to the bo'sun, crying out to him
that there were thousands of them swarming up to us. Yet, he was gone
already from me, running towards the fire, and shouting to the men in the
tent to haste to our help for their very lives, and then he came racing
back with a great armful of the weed, and after him came the big seaman,
carrying a burning tuft from the camp fire, and so in a few moments we
had a blaze, and the men were bringing more weed; for we had a very good
stock upon the hill-top; for which the Almighty be thanked.

Now, scarce had we lit one fire, when the bo'sun cried out to the big
seaman to make another, further along the edge of the cliff, and, in the
same instant, I shouted, and ran over to that part of the hill which lay
towards the open sea; for I had seen a number of moving things about the
edge of the seaward cliff. Now here there was a deal of shadow; for there
were scattered certain large masses of rock about this part of the hill,
and these held off both the light of the moon, and that from the fires.
Here, I came abruptly upon three great shapes moving with stealthiness
towards the camp, and, behind these, I saw dimly that there were others.
Then, with a loud cry for help, I made at the three, and, as I charged,
they rose up on end at me, and I found that they overtopped me, and their
vile tentacles were reached out at me. Then I was smiting, and gasping,
sick with a sudden stench, the stench of the creatures which I had come
already to know. And then something clutched at me, something slimy and
vile, and great mandibles champed in my face; but I stabbed upward, and
the thing fell from me, leaving me dazed and sick, and smiting weakly.
Then there came a rush of feet behind, and a sudden blaze, and the bo'sun
crying out encouragement, and, directly, he and the big seaman thrust
themselves in front of me, hurling from them great masses of burning
weed, which they had borne, each of them, up a long reed. And immediately
the things were gone, slithering hastily down over the cliff edge.

And so, presently, I was more my own man, and made to wipe from my throat
the slime left by the clutch of the monster: and afterwards I ran from
fire to fire with weed, feeding them, and so a space passed, during
which we had safety; for by that time we had fires all about the top of
the hill, and the monsters were in mortal dread of fire, else had we been
dead, all of us, that night.

Now, a while before the dawn, we discovered, for the second time since we
had been upon the island, that our fuel could not last us the night at
the rate at which we were compelled to burn it, and so the bo'sun told
the men to let out every second fire, and thus we staved off for a while
the time when we should have to face a spell of darkness, and the things
which, at present, the fires held off from us. And so at last, we came to
the end of the weed and the reeds, and the bo'sun called out to us to
watch the cliff edges very carefully, and smite on the instant that any
thing showed; but that, should he call, all were to gather by the central
fire for a last stand. And, after that, he blasted the moon which had
passed behind a great bank of cloud. And thus matters were, and the gloom
deepened as the fires sank lower and lower. Then I heard a man curse, on
that part of the hill which lay towards the weed-continent, his cry
coming up to me against the wind, and the bo'sun shouted to us to all
have a care, and directly afterwards I smote at something that rose
silently above the edge of the cliff opposite to where I watched.

Perhaps a minute passed, and then there came shouts from all parts of the
hilltop, and I knew that the weed men were upon us, and in the same
instant there came two above the edge near me, rising with a ghostly
quietness, yet moving lithely. Now the first, I pierced somewhere in the
throat, and it fell backward; but the second, though I thrust it through,
caught my blade with a bunch of its tentacles, and was like to have
snatched it from me; but that I kicked it in the face, and at that,
being, I believe, more astonished than hurt, it loosed my sword, and
immediately fell away out of sight. Now this had taken, in all, no more
than some ten seconds; yet already I perceived so many as four others
coming into view a little to my right, and at that it seemed to me that
our deaths must be very near, for I knew not how we were to cope with the
creatures, coming as they were so boldly and with such rapidity. Yet, I
hesitated not, but ran at them, and now I thrust not; but cut at their
faces, and found this to be very effectual; for in this wise disposed I
of three in as many strokes; but the fourth had come right over the cliff
edge, and rose up at me upon its hinder parts, as had done those others
when the bo'sun had succored me. At that, I gave way, having a very
lively dread; but, hearing all about me the cries of conflict, and
knowing that I could expect no help, I made at the brute: then as it
stooped and reached out one of its bunches of tentacles, I sprang back,
and slashed at them, and immediately I followed this up by a thrust in
the stomach, and at that it collapsed into a writhing white ball, that
rolled this way and that, and so, in its agony, coming to the edge of the
cliff, it fell over, and I was left, sick and near helpless with the
hateful stench of the brutes.

Now by this time all the fires about the edges of the hill were sunken
into dull glowing mounds of embers; though that which burnt near to the
entrance of the tent was still of a good brightness; yet this helped us
but little, for we fought too far beyond the immediate circle of its
beams to have benefit of it. And still the moon, at which now I threw a
despairing glance, was no more than a ghostly shape behind the great bank
of cloud which was passing over it. Then, even as I looked upward,
glancing as it might be over my left shoulder, I saw, with a sudden
horror, that something had come anigh me, and upon the instant, I caught
the reek of the thing, and leapt fearfully to one side, turning as I
sprang. Thus was I saved in the very moment of my destruction; for the
creature's tentacles smeared the back of my neck as I leapt, and then I
had smitten, once and again, and conquered.

Immediately after this, I discovered something to be crossing the dark
space that lay between the dull mound of the nearest fire, and that which
lay further along the hill-top, and so, wasting no moment of time, I ran
towards the thing, and cut it twice across the head before ever it could
get upon its hind parts, in which position I had learned greatly to dread
them. Yet, no sooner had I slain this one, than there came a rush of
maybe a dozen upon me; these having climbed silently over the cliff edge
in the meanwhile. At this, I dodged, and ran madly towards the glowing
mound of the nearest fire, the brutes following me almost so quick as I
could run; but I came to the fire the first, and then, a sudden thought
coming to me, I thrust the point of my cut-and-thrust among the embers
and switched a great shower of them at the creatures, and at that I had a
momentary clear vision of many white, hideous faces stretched out towards
me, and brown, champing mandibles which had the upper beak shutting into
the lower; and the clumped, wriggling tentacles were all a-flutter. Then
the gloom came again; but immediately, I switched another and yet another
shower of the burning embers towards them, and so, directly, I saw them
give back, and then they were gone. At this, all about the edges of the
hilltop, I saw the fires being scattered in like manner; for others had
adopted this device to help them in their sore straits.

For a little after this, I had a short breathing space, the brutes
seeming to have taken fright; yet I was full of trembling, and I glanced
hither and thither, not knowing when some one or more of them would come
upon me. And ever I glanced towards the moon, and prayed the Almighty
that the clouds would pass quickly, else should we be all dead men; and
then, as I prayed, there rose a sudden very terrible scream from one of
the men, and in the same moment there came something over the edge of the
cliff fronting me; but I cleft it or ever it could rise higher, and in my
ears there echoed still the sudden scream which had come from that part
of the hill which lay to the left of me: yet I dared not to leave my
station; for to have done so would have been to have risked all, and so I
stayed, tortured by the strain of ignorance, and my own terror.

Again, I had a little spell in which I was free from molestation; nothing
coming into sight so far as I could see to right or left of me; though
others were less fortunate, as the curses and sounds of blows told to me,
and then, abruptly, there came another cry of pain, and I looked up again
to the moon, and prayed aloud that it might come out to show some light
before we were all destroyed; but it remained hid. Then a sudden thought
came into my brain, and I shouted at the top of my voice to the bo'sun to
set the great cross-bow upon the central fire; for thus we should have a
big blaze--the wood being very nice and dry. Twice I shouted to him,
saying:--"Burn the bow! Burn the bow!" And immediately he replied,
shouting to all the men to run to him and carry it to the fire; and this
we did and bore it to the center fire, and then ran back with all speed
to our places. Thus in a minute we had some light, and the light grew as
the fire took hold of the great log, the wind fanning it to a blaze. And
so I faced outwards, looking to see if any vile face showed above the
edge before me, or to my right or left. Yet, I saw nothing, save, as it
seemed to me, once a fluttering tentacle came up, a little to my right;
but nothing else for a space.

Perhaps it was near five minutes later, that there came another attack,
and, in this, I came near to losing my life, through my folly in
venturing too near to the edge of the cliff; for, suddenly, there shot up
out from the darkness below, a clump of tentacles, and caught me about
the left ankle, and immediately I was pulled to a sitting posture, so
that both my feet were over the edge of the precipice, and it was only by
the mercy of God that I had not plunged head foremost into the valley.
Yet, as it was, I suffered a mighty peril; for the brute that had my
foot, put a vast strain upon it, trying to pull me down; but I resisted,
using my hands and seat to sustain me, and so, discovering that it could
not compass my end in this wise, it slacked somewhat of the stress, and
bit at my boot, shearing through the hard leather, and nigh destroying my
small toe; but now, being no longer compelled to use both hands to retain
my position, I slashed down with great fury, being maddened by the pain
and the mortal fear which the creature had put upon me; yet I was not
immediately free of the brute; for it caught my sword blade; but I
snatched it away before it could take a proper hold, mayhaps cutting its
feelers somewhat thereby; though of this I cannot be sure, for they
seemed not to grip around a thing, but to _suck_ to it; then, in a
moment, by a lucky blow, I maimed it, so that it loosed me, and I was
able to get back into some condition of security.

And from this onwards, we were free from molestation; though we had no
knowledge but that the quietness of the weed men did but portend a
fresh attack, and so, at last, it came to the dawn; and in all this
time the moon came not to our help, being quite hid by the clouds which
now covered the whole arc of the sky, making the dawn of a very
desolate aspect.

And so soon as there was a sufficiency of light, we examined the valley;
but there were nowhere any of the weed men, no! nor even any of their
dead for it seemed that they had carried off all such and their wounded,
and so we had no opportunity to make an examination of the monsters by
daylight. Yet, though we could not come upon their dead, all about the
edges of the cliffs was blood and slime, and from the latter there came
ever the hideous stench which marked the brutes; but from this we
suffered little, the wind carrying it far away to leeward, and filling
our lungs with sweet and wholesome air.

Presently, seeing that the danger was past, the bo'sun called us to the
center fire, on which burnt still the remnants of the great bow, and here
we discovered for the first time that one of the men was gone from us. At
that, we made search about the hilltop, and afterwards in the valley and
about the island; but found him not.




XIV

In Communication


Now of the search which we made through the valley for the body of
Tompkins, that being the name of the lost man, I have some doleful
memories. But first, before we left the camp, the bo'sun gave us all a
very sound tot of the rum, and also a biscuit apiece, and thereafter we
hasted down, each man holding his weapon readily. Presently, when we were
come to the beach which ended the valley upon the seaward side, the
bo'sun led us along to the bottom of the hill, where the precipices came
down into the softer stuff which covered the valley, and here we made a
careful search, perchance he had fallen over, and lay dead or wounded
near to our hands. But it was not so, and after that, we went down to the
mouth of the great pit, and here we discovered the mud all about it to be
covered with multitudes of tracks, and in addition to these and the
slime, we found many traces of blood; but nowhere any signs of Tompkins.
And so, having searched all the valley, we came out upon the weed which
strewed the shore nearer to the great weed-continent; but discovered
nothing until we had made up towards the foot of the hill, where it came
down sheer into the sea. Here, I climbed on to a ledge--the same from
which the men had caught their fish--, thinking that, if Tompkins had
fallen from above, he might lie in the water at the foot of the cliff,
which was here, maybe, some ten to twenty feet deep; but, for a little
space, I saw nothing. Then, suddenly, I discovered that there was
something white, down in the sea away to my left, and, at that, I climbed
farther out along the ledge.

In this wise I perceived that the thing which had attracted my notice was
the dead body of one of the weed men. I could see it but dimly, catching
odd glimpses of it as the surface of the water smoothed at whiles. It
appeared to me to be lying curled up, and somewhat upon its right side,
and in proof that it was dead, I saw a mighty wound that had come near to
shearing away the head; and so, after a further glance, I came in, and
told what I had seen. At that, being convinced by this time that Tompkins
was indeed done to death, we ceased our search; but first, before we left
the spot, the bo'sun climbed out to get a sight of the dead weed man and
after him the rest of the men, for they were greatly curious to see
clearly what manner of creature it was that had attacked us in the night.
Presently, having seen so much of the brute as the water would allow,
they came in again to the beach, and afterwards were returned to the
opposite side of the island, and so, being there, we crossed over to the
boat, to see whether it had been harmed; but found it to be untouched.
Yet, that the creatures had been all about it, we could perceive by the
marks of slime upon the sand, and also by the strange trail which they
had left in the soft surface. Then one of the men called out that there
had been something at Job's grave, which, as will be remembered, had been
made in the sand some little distance from the place of our first camp.
At that, we looked all of us, and it was easy to see that it had been
disturbed, and so we ran hastily to it, knowing not what to fear; thus
we found it to be empty; for the monsters had digged down to the poor
lad's body, and of it we could discover no sign. Upon this, we came to a
greater horror of the weed men than ever; for we knew them now to be foul
ghouls who could not let even the dead body rest in the grave.

Now after this, the bo'sun led us all back to the hill-top, and there he
looked to our hurts; for one man had lost two fingers in the night's
fray; another had been bitten savagely in the left arm; whilst a third
had all the skin of his face raised in wheals where one of the brutes had
fixed its tentacles. And all of these had received but scant attention,
because of the stress of the fight, and, after that, through the
discovery that Tompkins was missing. Now, however, the bo'sun set-to upon
them, washing and binding them up, and for dressings he made use of some
of the oakum which we had with us, binding this on with strips torn from
the roll of spare duck, which had been in the locker of the boat.

For my part, seizing this chance to make some examination of my
wounded toe, the which, indeed, was causing me to limp, I found that I
had endured less harm than seemed to me; for the bone of the toe was
untouched, though showing bare; yet when it was cleansed, I had not
overmuch pain with it; though I could not suffer to have the boot on,
and so bound some canvas about my foot, until such time as it should
be healed.

Presently, when our wounds were all attended to, the which had taken
time, for there was none of us altogether untouched, the bo'sun bade the
man whose fingers were damaged, to lie down in the tent, and the same
order he gave also to him that was bitten in the arm. Then, the rest of
us he directed to go down with him and carry up fuel; for that the night
had shown him how our very lives depended upon a sufficiency of this;
and so all that morning we brought fuel to the hill-top, both weed and
reeds, resting not until midday, when he gave us a further tot of the
rum, and after that set one of the men upon the dinner. Then he bade the
man, Jessop by name, who had proposed to fly a kite over the vessel in
the weed, to say whether he had any craft in the making of such a
matter. At that, the fellow laughed, and told the bo'sun that he would
make him a kite that would fly very steadily and strongly, and this
without the aid of a tail. And so the bo'sun bade him set-to without
delay, for that we should do well to deliver the people in the hulk, and
afterwards make all haste from the island, which was no better than a
nesting place of ghouls.

Now hearing the man say that his kite would fly without a tail, I was
mightily curious to see what manner of thing he would make; for I had
never seen the like, nor heard that such was possible. Yet he spoke of no
more than he could accomplish; for he took two of the reeds and cut them
to a length of about six feet; then he bound them together in the middle
so that they formed a Saint Andrew's cross, and after that he made two
more such crosses, and when these were completed, he took four reeds
maybe a dozen feet long, and bade us stand them upright in the shape of a
square, so that they formed the four corners, and after that he took one
of the crosses, and laid it in the square so that its four ends touched
the four uprights, and in this position he lashed it. Then he took the
second cross and lashed it midway between the top and bottom of the
uprights, and after that he lashed the third at the top, so that the
three of them acted as spreaders to keep the four longer reeds in their
places as though they were for the uprights of a little square tower.
Now, when he had gotten so far as that, the bo'sun called out to us to
make our dinners, and this we did, and afterwards had a short time in
which to smoke, and whilst we were thus at our ease the sun came out,
the which it had not done all the day, and at that we felt vastly
brighter; for the day had been very gloomy with clouds until that time,
and what with the loss of Tompkins, and our own fears and hurts, we had
been exceeding doleful, but now, as I have said, we became more cheerful,
and went very alertly to the finishing of the kite.

At this point it came suddenly to the bo'sun that we had made no
provision of cord for the flying of the kite, and he called out to the
man to know what strength the kite would require, at which Jessop
answered him that maybe ten-yarn sennit would do, and this being so,
the bo'sun led three of us down to the wrecked mast upon the further
beach, and from this we stripped all that was left of the shrouds, and
carried them to the top of the hill, and so, presently, having unlaid
them, we set-to upon the sennit, using ten yarns; but plaiting two as
one, by which means we progressed with more speed than if we had taken
them singly.

Now, as we worked, I glanced occasionally towards Jessop, and saw that he
stitched a band of the light duck around each end of the framework which
he had made, and these bands I judged to be about four feet wide, in this
wise leaving an open space between the two, so that now the thing looked
something like to a Punchinello show, only that the opening was in the
wrong place, and there was too much of it. After that he bent on a bridle
to two of the uprights, making this of a piece of good hemp rope which he
found in the tent, and then he called out to the bo'sun that the kite was
finished. At that, the bo'sun went over to examine it, the which did all
of us; for none of us had seen the like of such a thing, and, if I
misdoubt not, few of us had much faith that it would fly; for it seemed
so big and unwieldy. Now, I think that Jessop gathered something of our
thoughts; for, calling to one of us to hold the kite, lest it should
blow away, he went into the tent, and brought out the remainder of the
hemp line, the same from which he had cut the bridle. This, he bent on to
it, and, giving the end into our hands, bade us go back with it until all
the slack was taken up, he, in the meanwhile, steadying the kite. Then,
when we had gone back to the extent of the line, he shouted to us to take
a very particular hold upon it, and then, stooping, caught the kite by
the bottom, and threw it into the air, whereupon, to our amazement,
having swooped somewhat to one side, it steadied and mounted upwards into
the sky like a very bird.

Now at this, as I have made mention, we were astonished, for it appeared
like a miracle to us to see so cumbrous a thing fly with so much grace
and persistence, and further, we were mightily surprised at the manner in
which it pulled upon the rope, tugging with such heartiness that we were
like to have loosed it in our first astonishment, had it not been for the
warning which Jessop called to us.

And now, being well assured of the properness of the kite, the bo'sun
bade us to draw it in, the which we did only with difficulty, because of
its bigness and the strength of the breeze. And when we had it back again
upon the hilltop, Jessop moored it very securely to a great piece of
rock, and, after that, having received our approbation, he turned-to with
us upon the making of the sennit.

Presently, the evening drawing near, the bo'sun set us to the building of
fires about the hill-top, and after that, having waved our goodnights to
the people in the hulk, we made our suppers, and lay down to smoke, after
which, we turned-to again at our plaiting of the sennit, the which we
were in very great haste to have done. And so, later, the dark having
come down upon the island, the bo'sun bade us take burning weed from the
center fire, and set light to the heaps of weed that we had stacked
round the edges of the hill for that purpose, and so in a few minutes the
whole of the hill-top was very light and cheerful, and afterwards, having
put two of the men to keep watch and attend to the fires, he sent the
rest of us back to our sennit making, keeping us at it until maybe about
ten of the clock, after which he arranged that two men at a time should
be on watch throughout the night, and then he bade the rest of us
turn-in, so soon as he had looked to our various hurts.

Now, when it came to my turn to watch, I discovered that I had been
chosen to accompany the big seaman, at which I was by no means
displeased; for he was a most excellent fellow, and moreover a very lusty
man to have near, should anything come upon one unawares. Yet, we were
happy in that the night passed off without trouble of any sort, and so at
last came the morning.

So soon as we had made our breakfast, the bo'sun took us all down to the
carrying of fuel; for he saw very clearly that upon a good supply of this
depended our immunity from attack. And so for the half of the morning we
worked at the gathering of weed and reeds for our fires. Then, when we
had obtained a sufficiency for the coming night, he set us all to work
again upon the sennit, and so until dinner, after which we turned-to once
more upon our plaiting. Yet it was plain that it would take several days
to make a sufficient line for our purpose, and because of this, the
bo'sun cast about in his mind for some way in which he could quicken its
production. Presently, as a result of some little thought, he brought out
from the tent the long piece of hemp rope with which we had moored the
boat to the sea anchor, and proceeded to unlay it, until he had all three
strands separate. Then he bent the three together, and so had a very
rough line of maybe some hundred and eighty fathoms in length, yet,
though so rough, he judged it strong enough, and thus we had this much
the less sennit to make.

Now, presently, we made our dinner, and after that for the rest of the
day we kept very steadily to our plaiting, and so, with the previous
day's work, had near two hundred fathoms completed by the time that the
bo'sun called us to cease and come to supper. Thus it will be seen that
counting all, including the piece of hemp line from which the bridle had
been made, we may be said to have had at this time about four hundred
fathoms towards the length which we needed for our purpose, this having
been reckoned at five hundred fathoms.

After supper, having lit all the fires, we continued to work at the
plaiting, and so, until the bo'sun set the watches, after which we
settled down for the night, first, however, letting the bo'sun see to
our hurts. Now this night, like to the previous, brought us no trouble;
and when the day came, we had first our breakfast, and then set-to upon
our collecting of fuel, after which we spent the rest of the day at the
sennit, having manufactured a sufficiency by the evening, the which the
bo'sun celebrated by a very rousing tot of the rum. Then, having made
our supper, we lit the fires, and had a very comfortable evening, after
which, as on the preceding nights, having let the bo'sun attend our
wounds, we settled for the night, and on this occasion the bo'sun let
the man who had lost his fingers, and the one who had been bitten so
badly in the arm, take their first turn at the watching since the night
of the attack.

Now when the morning came we were all of us very eager to come to the
flying of the kite; for it seemed possible to us that we might effect
the rescue of the people in the hulk before the evening. And, at the
thought of this, we experienced a very pleasurable sense of excitement;
yet, before the bo'sun would let us touch the kite, he insisted that we
should gather our usual supply of fuel, the which order, though full of
wisdom, irked us exceedingly, because of our eagerness to set about the
rescue. But at last this was accomplished, and we made to get the line
ready, testing the knots, and seeing that it was all clear for running.
Yet, before setting the kite off, the bo'sun took us down to the further
beach to bring up the foot of the royal and t'gallant mast, which
remained fast to the topmast, and when we had this upon the hill-top, he
set its ends upon two rocks, after which he piled a heap of great pieces
around them, leaving the middle part clear. Round this he passed the
kite line a couple or three times, and then gave the end to Jessop to
bend on to the bridle of the kite, and so he had all ready for paying
out to the wreck.

And now, having nothing to do, we gathered round to watch, and,
immediately, the bo'sun giving the signal, Jessop cast the kite into
the air, and, the wind catching it, lifted it strongly and well, so
that the bo'sun could scarce pay out fast enough. Now, before the kite
had been let go, Jessop had bent to the forward end of it a great
length of the spun yarn, so that those in the wreck could catch it as
it trailed over them, and, being eager to witness whether they would
secure it without trouble, we ran all of us to the edge of the hill to
watch. Thus, within five minutes from the time of the loosing of the
kite, we saw the people in the ship wave to us to cease veering, and
immediately afterwards the kite came swiftly downwards, by which we
knew that they had the tripping-line, and were hauling upon it, and at
that we gave out a great cheer, and afterwards we sat about and smoked,
waiting until they had read our instructions, which we had written upon
the covering of the kite.

Presently, maybe the half of an hour afterwards, they signaled to us to
haul upon our line, which we proceeded to do without delay, and so,
after a great space, we had hauled in all of our rough line, and come
upon the end of theirs, which proved to be a fine piece of three-inch
hemp, new and very good; yet we could not conceive that this would stand
the stress necessary to lift so great a length clear of the weed, as
would be needful, or ever we could hope to bring the people of the ship
over it in safety. And so we waited some little while, and, presently,
they signaled again to us to haul, which we did, and found that they had
bent on a much greater rope to the bight of the three-inch hemp, having
merely intended the latter for a hauling-line by which to get the heavier
rope across the weed to the island. Thus, after a weariful time of
pulling, we got the end of the bigger rope up to the hill-top, and
discovered it to be an extraordinarily sound rope of some four inches
diameter, and smoothly laid of fine yarns round and very true and well
spun, and with this we had every reason to be satisfied.

Now to the end of the big rope they had tied a letter, in a bag of
oilskin, and in it they said some very warm and grateful things to us,
after which they set out a short code of signals by which we should be
able to understand one another on certain general matters, and at the end
they asked if they should send us any provision ashore; for, as they
explained, it would take some little while to get the rope set taut
enough for our purpose, and the carrier fixed and in working order. Now,
upon reading this letter, we called out to the bo'sun that he should ask
them if they would send us some soft bread; the which he added thereto a
request for lint and bandages and ointment for our hurts. And this he
bade me write upon one of the great leaves from off the reeds, and at the
end he told me to ask if they desired us to send them any fresh water.
And all of this, I wrote with a sharpened splinter of reed, cutting the
words into the surface of the leaf. Then, when I had made an end of
writing, I gave the leaf to the bo'sun, and he enclosed it in the oilskin
bag, after which he gave the signal for those in the hulk to haul on the
smaller line, and this they did.

Presently, they signed to us to pull in again, the which we did, and so,
when we had hauled in a great length of their line, we came to the little
oilskin bag, in which we found lint and bandages and ointment, and a
further letter, which set out that they were baking bread, and would send
us some so soon as it was out from the oven.

Now, in addition to the matters for the healing of our wounds, and the
letter, they had included a bundle of paper in loose sheets, some quills
and an inkhorn, and at the end of their epistle, they begged very
earnestly of us to send them some news of the outer world; for they had
been shut up in that strange continent of weed for something over seven
years. They told us then that there were twelve of them in the hulk,
three of them being women, one of whom had been the captain's wife; but
he had died soon after the vessel became entangled in the weed, and along
with him more than half of the ship's company, having been attacked by
giant devil-fish, as they were attempting to free the vessel from the
weed, and afterwards they who were left had built the superstructure as a
protection against the devil-fish, and the _devil-men_, as they termed
them; for, until it had been built, there had been no safety about the
decks, neither day nor night.

To our question as to whether they were in need of water, the people in
the ship replied that they had a sufficiency, and, further, that they
were very well supplied with provisions; for the ship had sailed from
London with a general cargo, among which there was a vast quantity of
food in various shapes and forms. At this news we were greatly pleased,
seeing that we need have no more anxiety regarding a lack of victuals,
and so in the letter which I went into the tent to write, I put down
that we were in no great plentitude of provisions, at which hint I
guessed they would add somewhat to the bread when it should be ready. And
after that I wrote down such chief events as my memory recalled as having
occurred in the course of the past seven years, and then, a short account
of our own adventures, up to that time, telling them of the attack which
we had suffered from the weed men, and asking such questions as my
curiosity and wonder prompted.

Now whilst I had been writing, sitting in the mouth of the tent, I had
observed, from time to time, how that the bo'sun was busied with the men
in passing the end of the big rope round a mighty boulder, which lay
about ten fathoms in from the edge of the cliff which overlooked the
hulk. This he did, parceling the rope where the rock was in any way
sharp, so as to protect it from being cut; for which purpose he made use
of some of the canvas. And by the time that I had the letter completed,
the rope was made very secure to the great piece of rock, and, further,
they had put a large piece of chafing gear under that part of the rope
where it took the edge of the cliff.

Now having, as I have said, completed the letter, I went out with it to
the bo'sun; but, before placing it in the oilskin bag he bade me add a
note at the bottom, to say that the big rope was all fast, and that they
could heave on it so soon as it pleased them, and after that we
dispatched the letter by means of the small line, the men in the hulk
hauling it off to them so soon as they perceived our signals.

By this, it had come well on to the latter part of the afternoon, and the
bo'sun called us to make some sort of a meal, leaving one man to watch
the hulk, perchance they should signal to us. For we had missed our
dinner in the excitement of the day's work, and were come now to feel the
lack of it. Then, in the midst of it, the man upon the lookout cried out
that they were signaling to us from the ship, and, at that, we ran all of
us to see what they desired, and so, by the code which we had arranged
between us, we found that they waited for us to haul upon the small line.
This did we, and made out presently that we were hauling something across
the weed, of a very fair bulk, at which we warmed to our work, guessing
that it was the bread which they had promised us, and so it proved, and
done up with great neatness in a long roll of tarpaulin, which had been
wrapped around both the loaves and the rope, and lashed very securely at
the ends, thus producing a taper shape convenient for passing over the
weed without catching. Now, when we came to open this parcel, we
discovered that my hint had taken very sound effect; for there were in
the parcel, besides the loaves, a boiled ham, a Dutch cheese, two bottles
of port well padded from breakage, and four pounds of tobacco in plugs.
And at this coming of good things, we stood all of us upon the edge of
the hill, and waved our thanks to those in the ship, they waving back in
all good will, and after that we went back to our meal, at which we
sampled the new victuals with very lusty appetites.

There was in the parcel, one other matter, a letter, most neatly
indited, as had been the former epistles, in a feminine handwriting, so
that I guessed they had one of the women to be their scribe. This
epistle answered some of my queries, and, in particular, I remember that
it informed me as to the probable cause of the strange crying which
preceded the attack by the weed men, saying that on each occasion when
they in the ship had suffered their attacks, there had been always this
same crying, being evidently a summoning call or signal to the attack,
though how given, the writer had not discovered; for the weed
_devils_--this being how they in the ship spoke always of them--made
never a sound when attacking, not even when wounded to the death, and,
indeed, I may say here, that we never learnt the way in which that
lonesome sobbing was produced, nor, indeed, did they, or we, discover
more than the merest tithe of the mysteries which that great continent
of weed holds in its silence.

Another matter to which I had referred was the consistent blowing of the
wind from one quarter, and this the writer told me happened for as much
as six months in the year, keeping up a very steady strength. A further
thing there was which gave me much interest; it was that the ship had not
been always where we had discovered her; for at one time they had been so
far within the weed, that they could scarce discern the open sea upon the
far horizon; but that at times the weed opened in great gulfs that went
yawning through the continent for scores of miles, and in this way the
shape and coasts of the weed were being constantly altered; these
happenings being for the most part at the change of the wind.

And much more there was that they told us then and afterwards, how that
they dried weed for their fuel, and how the rains, which fell with great
heaviness at certain periods, supplied them with fresh water; though, at
times, running short, they had learnt to distil sufficient for their
needs until the next rains.

Now, near to the end of the epistle, there came some news of their
present actions, and thus we learnt that they in the ship were busy at
staying the stump of the mizzen-mast, this being the one to which they
proposed to attach the big rope, taking it through a great iron-bound
snatch-block, secured to the head of the stump, and then down to the
mizzen-capstan, by which, and a strong tackle, they would be able to
heave the line so taut as was needful.

Now, having finished our meal, the bo'sun took out the lint, bandages and
ointment, which they had sent us from the hulk, and proceeded to dress
our hurts, beginning with him who had lost his fingers, which, happily,
were making a very healthy heal. And afterwards we went all of us to the
edge of the cliff, and sent back the look-out to fill such crevices in
his stomach as remained yet empty; for we had passed him already some
sound hunks of the bread and ham and cheese, to eat whilst he kept watch,
and so he had suffered no great harm.

It may have been near an hour after this, that the bo'sun pointed out to
me that they in the ship had commenced to heave upon the great rope, and
so I perceived, and stood watching it; for I knew that the bo'sun had
some anxiety as to whether it would take-up sufficiently clear of the
weed to allow those in the ship to be hauled along it, free from
molestation by the great devil-fish.

Presently, as the evening began to draw on, the bo'sun bade us go and
build our fires about the hilltop, and this we did, after which we
returned to learn how the rope was lifting, and now we perceived that it
had come clear of the weed, at which we felt mightily rejoiced, and waved
encouragement, chance there might be any who watched us from the hulk.
Yet, though the rope was up clear of the weed, the bight of it had to
rise to a much greater height, or ever it would do for the purpose for
which we intended it, and already it suffered a vast strain, as I
discovered by placing my hand upon it; for, even to lift the slack of so
great a length of line meant the stress of some tons. And later I saw
that the bo'sun was growing anxious; for he went over to the rock around
which he had made fast the rope, and examined the knots, and those places
where he had parceled it, and after that he walked to the place where it
went over the edge of the cliff, and here he made a further scrutiny; but
came back presently, seeming not dissatisfied.

Then, in a while, the darkness came down upon us, and we lighted our
fires and prepared for the night, having the watches arranged as on the
preceding nights.




XV

Aboard the Hulk


Now when it came to my watch, the which I took in company with the big
seaman, the moon had not yet risen, and all the island was vastly dark,
save the hill-top, from which the fires blazed in a score of places, and
very busy they kept us, supplying them with fuel. Then, when maybe the
half of our watch had passed, the big seaman, who had been to feed the
fires upon the weed side of the hill-top, came across to me, and bade me
come and put my hand upon the lesser rope; for that he thought they in
the ship were anxious to haul it in so that they might send some message
across to us. At his words, I asked him very anxiously whether he had
perceived them waving a light, the which we had arranged to be our method
of signaling in the night, in the event of such being needful; but, to
this, he said that he had seen naught; and, by now, having come near the
edge of the cliff, I could see for myself, and so perceived that there
was none signaling to us from the hulk. Yet, to please the fellow, I put
my hand upon the line, which we had made fast in the evening to a large
piece of rock, and so, immediately, I discovered that something was
pulling upon it, hauling and then slackening, so that it occurred to me
that the people in the vessel might be indeed wishful to send us some
message, and at that, to make sure, I ran to the nearest fire, and,
lighting a tuft of weed, waved it thrice; but there came not any
answering signal from those in the ship, and at that I went back to feel
at the rope, to assure myself that it had not been the pluck of the wind
upon it; but I found that it was something very different from the wind,
something that plucked with all the sharpness of a hooked fish, only that
it had been a mighty great fish to have given such tugs, and so I knew
that some vile thing out in the darkness of the weed was fast to the
rope, and at this there came the fear that it might break it, and then a
second thought that something might be climbing up to us along the rope,
and so I bade the big seaman stand ready with his great cutlass, whilst I
ran and waked the bo'sun. And this I did, and explained to him how that
something meddled with the lesser rope, so that he came immediately to
see for himself how this might be, and when he had put his hand upon it,
he bade me go and call the rest of the men, and let them stand round by
the fires; for that there was something abroad in the night, and we might
be in danger of attack; but he and the big seaman stayed by the end of
the rope, watching, so far as the darkness would allow, and ever and anon
feeling the tension upon it.

Then, suddenly, it came to the bo'sun to look to the second line, and he
ran, cursing himself for his thoughtlessness; but because of its greater
weight and tension, he could not discover for certain whether anything
meddled with it or not; yet he stayed by it, arguing that if aught
touched the smaller rope then might something do likewise with the
greater, only that the small line lay along the weed, whilst the greater
one had been some feet above it when the darkness had fallen over us, and
so might be free from any prowling creatures.

And thus, maybe, an hour passed, and we kept watch and tended the fires,
going from one to another, and, presently, coming to that one which was
nearest to the bo'sun, I went over to him, intending to pass a few
minutes in talk; but as I drew nigh to him, I chanced to place my hand
upon the big rope, and at that I exclaimed in surprise; for it had become
much slacker than when last I had felt it in the evening, and I asked the
bo'sun whether he had noticed it, whereat he felt the rope, and was
almost more amazed than I had been; for when last he had touched it, it
had been taut, and humming in the wind. Now, upon this discovery, he was
in much fear that something had bitten through it, and called to the men
to come all of them and pull upon the rope, so that he might discover
whether it was indeed parted; but when they came and hauled upon it, they
were unable to gather in any of it, whereat we felt all of us mightily
relieved in our minds; though still unable to come at the cause of its
sudden slackness.

And so, a while later, there rose the moon, and we were able to examine
the island and the water between it and the weed-continent, to see
whether there was anything stirring; yet neither in the valley, nor on
the faces of the cliffs, nor in the open water could we perceive aught
living, and as for anything among the weed, it was small use trying to
discover it among all that shaggy blackness. And now, being assured that
nothing was coming at us, and that, so far as our eyes could pierce,
there climbed nothing upon the ropes, the bo'sun bade us get turned-in,
all except those whose time it was to watch. Yet, before I went into the
tent, I made a careful examination of the big rope, the which did also
the bo'sun, but could perceive no cause for its slackness; though this
was quite apparent in the moonlight, the rope going down with greater
abruptness than it had done in the evening. And so we could but conceive
that they in the hulk had slacked it for some reason; and after that we
went to the tent and a further spell of sleep.

In the early morning we were waked by one of the watchmen, coming into
the tent to call the bo'sun; for it appeared that the hulk had moved in
the night, so that its stern was now pointed somewhat towards the island.
At this news, we ran all of us from the tent to the edge of the hill, and
found it to be indeed as the man had said, and now I understood the
reason of that sudden slackening of the rope; for, after withstanding the
stress upon it for some hours, the vessel had at last yielded, and slewed
its stern towards us, moving also to some extent bodily in our direction.

And now we discovered that a man in the look-out place in the top of the
structure was waving a welcome to us, at which we waved back, and then
the bo'sun bade me haste and write a note to know whether it seemed to
them likely that they might be able to heave the ship clear of the weed,
and this I did, greatly excited within myself at this new thought, as,
indeed, was the bo'sun himself and the rest of the men. For could they do
this, then how easily solved were every problem of coming to our own
country. But it seemed too good a thing to have come true, and yet I
could but hope. And so, when my letter was completed, we put it up in the
little oilskin bag, and signaled to those in the ship to haul in upon the
line. Yet, when they went to haul, there came a mighty splather amid the
weed, and they seemed unable to gather in any of the slack, and then,
after a certain pause, I saw the man in the look-out point something, and
immediately afterwards there belched out in front of him a little puff of
smoke, and, presently, I caught the report of a musket, so that I knew
that he was firing at something in the weed. He fired again, and yet once
more, and after that they were able to haul in upon the line, and so I
perceived that his fire had proved effectual; yet we had no knowledge of
the thing at which he had discharged his weapon.

Now, presently, they signaled to us to draw back the line, the which we
could do only with great difficulty, and then the man in the top of the
super-structure signed to us to vast hauling, which we did, whereupon he
began to fire again into the weed; though with what effect we could not
perceive. Then, in a while he signaled to us to haul again, and now the
rope came more easily; yet still with much labor, and a commotion in the
weed over which it lay and, in places, sank. And so, at last, as it
cleared the weed because of the lift of the cliff, we saw that a great
crab had clutched it, and that we hauled it towards us; for the creature
had too much obstinacy to let go.

Perceiving this, and fearing that the great claws of the crab might
divide the rope, the bo'sun caught up one of the men's lances, and ran to
the cliff edge, calling to us to pull in gently, and put no more strain
upon the line than need be. And so, hauling with great steadiness, we
brought the monster near to the edge of the hill, and there, at a wave
from the bo'sun, stayed our pulling. Then he raised the spear, and smote
at the creature's eyes, as he had done on a previous occasion, and
immediately it loosed its hold, and fell with a mighty splash into the
water at the foot of the cliff. Then the bo'sun bade us haul in the rest
of the rope, until we should come to the packet, and, in the meantime, he
examined the line to see whether it had suffered harm through the
mandibles of the crab; yet, beyond a little chafe, it was quite sound.

And so we came to the letter, which I opened and read, finding it to be
written in the same feminine hand which had indited the others. From it
we gathered that the ship had burst through a very thick mass of the weed
which had compacted itself about her, and that the second mate, who was
the only officer remaining to them, thought there might be good chance
to heave the vessel out; though it would have to be done with great
slowness, so as to allow the weed to part gradually, otherwise the ship
would but act as a gigantic rake to gather up weed before it, and so form
its own barrier to clear water. And after this there were kind wishes and
hopes that we had spent a good night, the which I took to be prompted by
the feminine heart of the writer, and after that I fell to wondering
whether it was the captain's wife who acted as scribe. Then I was waked
from my pondering, by one of the men crying out that they in the ship had
commenced to heave again upon the big rope, and, for a time, I stood and
watched it rise slowly, as it came to tautness.

I had stood there awhile, watching the rope, when, suddenly, there came a
commotion amid the weed, about two-thirds of the way to the ship, and now
I saw that the rope had freed itself from the weed, and clutching it,
were, maybe, a score of giant crabs. At this sight, some of the men cried
out their astonishment, and then we saw that there had come a number of
men into the look-out place in the top of the superstructure, and,
immediately, they opened a very brisk fire upon the creatures, and so, by
ones and twos they fell back into the weed, and after that, the men in
the hulk resumed their heaving, and so, in a while, had the rope some
feet clear of the surface.

Now, having tautened the rope so much as they thought proper, they left
it to have its due effect upon the ship, and proceeded to attach a great
block to it; then they signaled to us to slack away on the little rope
until they had the middle part of it, and this they hitched around the
neck of the block, and to the eye in the strop of the block they attached
a bo'sun's chair, and so they had ready a carrier, and by this means we
were able to haul stuff to and from the hulk without having to drag it
across the surface of the weed; being, indeed, the fashion in which we
had intended to haul ashore the people in the ship. But now we had the
bigger project of salvaging the ship herself, and, further, the big rope,
which acted as support for the carrier, was not yet of a sufficient
height above the weed-continent for it to be safe to attempt to bring any
ashore by such means; and now that we had hopes of saving the ship, we
did not intend to risk parting the big rope, by trying to attain such a
degree of tautness as would have been necessary at this time to have
raised its bight to the desired height.

Now, presently, the bo'sun called out to one of the men to make
breakfast, and when it was ready we came to it, leaving the man with the
wounded arm to keep watch; then when we had made an end, he sent him,
that had lost his fingers, to keep a look-out whilst the other came to
the fire and ate his breakfast. And in the meanwhile, the bo'sun took us
down to collect weed and reeds for the night, and so we spent the greater
part of the morning, and when we had made an end of this, we returned to
the top of the hill, to discover how matters were going forward; thus we
found, from the one at the look-out, that they, in the hulk, had been
obliged to heave twice upon the big rope to keep it off the weed, and by
this we knew that the ship was indeed making a slow sternway towards the
island--slipping steadily through the weed, and as we looked at her, it
seemed almost that we could perceive that she was nearer; but this was no
more than imagination; for, at most, she could not have moved more than
some odd fathoms. Yet it cheered us greatly, so that we waved our
congratulations to the man who stood in the lookout in the
superstructure, and he waved back.

Later, we made dinner, and afterwards had a very comfortable smoke, and
then the bo'sun attended to our various hurts. And so through the
afternoon we sat about upon the crest of the hill overlooking the
hulk, and thrice had they in the ship to heave upon the big rope, and
by evening they had made near thirty fathoms towards the island, the
which they told us in reply to a query which the bo'sun desired me to
send them, several messages having passed between us in the course of
the afternoon, so that we had the carrier upon our side. Further than
this, they explained that they would tend the rope during the night, so
that the strain would be kept up, and, more, this would keep the ropes
off the weed.

And so, the night coming down upon us, the bo'sun bade us light the fires
about the top of the hill, the same having been laid earlier in the day,
and thus, our supper having been dispatched, we prepared for the night.
And all through it there burned lights aboard the hulk, the which proved
very companionable to us in our times of watching; and so, at last came
the morning, the darkness having passed without event. And now, to our
huge pleasure, we discovered that the ship had made great progress in the
night; being now so much nearer that none could suppose it a matter of
imagination; for she must have moved nigh sixty fathoms nearer to the
island, so that now we seemed able almost to recognize the face of the
man in the look-out; and many things about the hulk we saw with greater
clearness, so that we scanned her with a fresh interest. Then the man in
the look-out waved a morning greeting to us, the which we returned very
heartily, and, even as we did so, there came a second figure beside the
man, and waved some white matter, perchance a handkerchief, which is like
enough, seeing that it was a woman, and at that, we took off our head
coverings, all of us, and shook them at her, and after this we went to
our breakfast; having finished which, the bo'sun dressed our hurts, and
then, setting the man, who had lost his fingers, to watch, he took the
rest of us, excepting him that was bitten in the arm, down to collect
fuel, and so the time passed until near dinner.

When we returned to the hill-top, the man upon the look-out told us that
they in the ship had heaved not less than four separate times upon the
big rope, the which, indeed, they were doing at that present minute; and
it was very plain to see that the ship had come nearer even during the
short space of the morning. Now, when they had made an end of tautening
the rope, I perceived that it was, at last, well clear of the weed
through all its length, being at its lowest part nigh twenty feet above
the surface, and, at that, a sudden thought came to me which sent me
hastily to the bo'sun; for it had occurred to me that there existed no
reason why we should not pay a visit to those aboard the hulk. But when I
put the matter to him, he shook his head, and, for awhile, stood out
against my desire; but, presently, having examined the rope, and
considering that I was the lightest of any in the island, he consented,
and at that I ran to the carrier which had been hauled across to our
side, and got me into the chair. Now, the men, so soon as they perceived
my intention, applauded me very heartily, desiring to follow; but the
bo'sun bade them be silent, and, after that, he lashed me into the chair,
with his own hands, and then signaled to those in the ship to haul upon
the small rope; he, in the meanwhile, checking my descent towards the
weeds, by means of our end of the hauling-line.

And so, presently, I had come to the lowest part, where the bight of the
rope dipped downward in a bow towards the weed, and rose again to the
mizzenmast of the hulk. Here I looked downward with somewhat fearful
eyes; for my weight on the rope made it sag somewhat lower than seemed to
me comfortable, and I had a very lively recollection of some of the
horrors which that quiet surface hid. Yet I was not long in this place;
for they in the ship, perceiving how the rope let me nearer to the weed
than was safe, pulled very heartily upon the hauling-line, and so I came
quickly to the hulk.

Now, as I drew nigh to the ship, the men crowded upon a little platform
which they had built in the superstructure somewhat below the broken head
of the mizzen, and here they received me with loud cheers and very open
arms, and were so eager to get me out of the bo'sun's chair, that they
cut the lashings, being too impatient to cast them loose. Then they led
me down to the deck, and here, before I had knowledge of aught else, a
very buxom woman took me into her arms, kissing me right heartily, at
which I was greatly taken aback; but the men about me did naught but
laugh, and so, in a minute, she loosed me, and there I stood, not knowing
whether to feel like a fool or a hero; but inclining rather to the
latter. Then, at this minute, there came a second woman, who bowed to me
in a manner most formal, so that we might have been met in some
fashionable gathering, rather than in a cast-away hulk in the
lonesomeness and terror of that weed-choked sea; and at her coming all
the mirth of the men died out of them, and they became very sober, whilst
the buxom woman went backward for a piece, and seemed somewhat abashed.
Now, at all this, I was greatly puzzled, and looked from one to another
to learn what it might mean; but in the same moment the woman bowed
again, and said something in a low voice touching the weather, and after
that she raised her glance to my face, so that I saw her eyes, and they
were so strange and full of melancholy, that I knew on the instant why
she spoke and acted in so unmeaning a way; for the poor creature was out
of her mind, and when I learnt afterwards that she was the captain's
wife, and had seen him die in the arms of a mighty devil-fish, I grew to
understand how she had come to such a pass.

Now for a minute after I had discovered the woman's madness, I was so
taken aback as to be unable to answer her remark; but for this there
appeared no necessity; for she turned away and went aft towards the
saloon stairway, which stood open, and here she was met by a maid very
bonny and fair, who led her tenderly down from my sight. Yet, in a
minute, this same maid appeared, and ran along the decks to me, and
caught my two hands, and shook them, and looked up at me with such
roguish, playful eyes, that she warmed my heart, which had been
strangely chilled by the greeting of the poor mad woman. And she said
many hearty things regarding my courage, to which I knew in my heart I
had no claim; but I let her run on, and so, presently, coming more to
possession of herself, she discovered that she was still holding my
hands, the which, indeed, I had been conscious of the while with a very
great pleasure; but at her discovery she dropped them with haste, and
stood back from me a space, and so there came a little coolness into her
talk: yet this lasted not long; for we were both of us young, and, I
think, even thus early we attracted one the other; though, apart from
this, there was so much that we desired each to learn, that we could not
but talk freely, asking question for question, and giving answer for
answer. And thus a time passed, in which the men left us alone, and went
presently to the capstan, about which they had taken the big rope, and
at this they toiled awhile; for already the ship had moved sufficiently
to let the line fall slack.

Presently, the maid, whom I had learnt was niece to the captain's wife,
and named Mary Madison, proposed to take me the round of the ship, to
which proposal I agreed very willingly; but first I stopped to examine
the mizzen stump, and the manner in which the people of the ship had
stayed it, the which they had done very cunningly, and I noted how that
they had removed some of the superstructure from about the head of the
mast, so as to allow passage for the rope, without putting a strain upon
the superstructure itself. Then when I had made an end upon the poop, she
led me down on to the main-deck, and here I was very greatly impressed by
the prodigious size of the structure which they had built about the hulk,
and the skill with which it had been carried out, the supports crossing
from side to side and to the decks in a manner calculated to give great
solidity to that which they upheld. Yet, I was very greatly puzzled to
know where they had gotten a sufficiency of timber to make so large a
matter; but upon this point she satisfied me by explaining that they had
taken up the 'tween decks, and used all such bulkheads as they could
spare, and, further, that there had been a good deal among the dunnage
which had proved usable.

And so we came at last to the galley, and here I discovered the buxom
woman to be installed as cook, and there were in with her a couple of
fine children, one of whom I guessed to be a boy of maybe some five
years, and the second a girl, scarce able to do more than toddle. At this
I turned and asked Mistress Madison whether these were her cousins; but
in the next moment I remembered that they could not be; for, as I knew,
the captain had been dead some seven years; yet it was the woman in the
galley who answered my question; for she turned and, with something of a
red face, informed me that they were hers, at which I felt some surprise;
but supposed that she had taken passage in the ship with her husband; yet
in this I was not correct; for she proceeded to explain that, thinking
they were cut off from the world for the rest of this life, and falling
very fond of the carpenter, they had made it up together to make a sort
of marriage, and had gotten the second mate to read the service over
them. She told me then, how that she had taken passage with her mistress,
the captain's wife, to help her with her niece, who had been but a child
when the ship sailed; for she had been very attached to them both, and
they to her. And so she came to an end of her story, expressing a hope
that she had done no wrong by her marriage, as none had been intended.
And to this I made answer, assuring her that no decent-minded man could
think the worse of her; but that I, for my part, thought rather the
better, seeing that I liked the pluck which she had shown. At that she
cast down the soup ladle, which she had in her fist, and came towards me,
wiping her hands; but I gave back, for I shamed to be hugged again, and
before Mistress Mary Madison, and at that she came to a stop and laughed
very heartily; but, all the same, called down a very warm blessing upon
my head; for which I had no cause to feel the worse. And so I passed on
with the captain's niece.

Presently, having made the round of the hulk, we came aft again to the
poop, and discovered that they were heaving once more upon the big rope,
the which was very heartening, proving, as it did, that the ship was
still a-move. And so, a little later, the girl left me, having to attend
to her aunt. Now whilst she was gone, the men came all about me, desiring
news of the world beyond the weed-continent, and so for the next hour I
was kept very busy, answering their questions. Then the second mate
called out to them to take another heave upon the rope, and at that they
turned to the capstan, and I with them, and so we hove it taut again,
after which they got about me once more, questioning; for so much seemed
to have happened in the seven years in which they had been imprisoned.
And then, after a while, I turned-to and questioned them on such points
as I had neglected to ask Mistress Madison, and they discovered to me
their terror and sickness of the weed-continent, its desolation and
horror, and the dread which had beset them at the thought that they
should all of them come to their ends without sight of their homes and
countrymen.

Now, about this time, I became conscious that I had grown very empty; for
I had come off to the hulk before we had made our dinner, and had been in
such interest since, that the thought of food had escaped me; for I had
seen none eating in the hulk, they, without doubt, having dined earlier
than my coming. But now, being made aware of my state by the grumbling of
my stomach, I inquired whether there was any food to be had at such a
time, and, at that, one of the men ran to tell the woman in the galley
that I had missed my dinner, at which she made much ado, and set-to and
prepared me a very good meal, which she carried aft and set out for me in
the saloon, and after that she sent me down to it.

Presently, when I had come near to being comfortable, there chanced a
lightsome step upon the floor behind me, and, turning, I discovered that
Mistress Madison was surveying me with a roguish and somewhat amused air.
At that, I got hastily to my feet; but she bade me sit down, and
therewith she took a seat opposite, and so bantered me with a gentle
playfulness that was not displeasing to me, and at which I played so good
a second as I had ability. Later, I fell to questioning her, and, among
other matters, discovered that it was she who acted as scribe for the
people in the hulk, at which I told her that I had done likewise for
those on the island. After that, our talk became somewhat personal, and I
learnt that she was near on to nineteen years of age, whereat I told her
that I had passed my twenty-third. And so we chatted on, until,
presently, it occurred to me that I had better be preparing to return to
the island, and I rose to my feet with this intention; yet feeling that I
had been very much happier to have stayed, the which I thought, for a
moment, had not been displeasing to her, and this I imagined, noting
somewhat in her eyes when I made mention that I must be gone. Yet it may
be that I flattered myself.

Now when I came out on deck, they were busied again in heaving taut the
rope, and, until they had made an end, Mistress Madison and I filled the
time with such chatter as is wholesome between a man and maid who have
not long met, yet find one another pleasing company. Then, when at last
the rope was taut, I went up to the mizzen staging, and climbed into the
chair, after which some of the men lashed me in very securely. Yet when
they gave the signal to haul me to the island, there came for awhile no
response, and then signs that we could not understand; but no movement to
haul me across the weed. At that, they unlashed me from the chair,
bidding me get out, whilst they sent a message to discover what might be
wrong. And this they did, and, presently, there came back word that the
big rope had stranded upon the edge of the cliff, and that they must
slacken it somewhat at once, the which they did, with many expressions of
dismay. And so, maybe an hour passed, during which we watched the men
working at the rope, just where it came down over the edge of the hill,
and Mistress Madison stood with us and watched; for it was very terrible,
this sudden thought of failure (though it were but temporary) when they
were so near to success. Yet, at last there came a signal from the island
for us to loose the hauling-line, the which we did, allowing them to haul
across the carrier, and so, in a little while, they signaled back to us
to pull in, which, having done, we found a letter in the bag lashed to
the carrier, in which the bo'sun made it plain that he had strengthened
the rope, and placed fresh chafing gear about it, so that he thought it
would be so safe as ever to heave upon; but to put it to a less strain.
Yet he refused to allow me to venture across upon it, saying that I must
stay in the ship until we were clear of the weed; for if the rope had
stranded in one place, then had it been so cruelly tested that there
might be some other points at which it was ready to give. And this final
note of the bo'sun's made us all very serious; for, indeed, it seemed
possible that it was as he suggested; yet they reassured themselves by
pointing out that, like enough, it had been the chafe upon the cliff edge
which had frayed the strand, so that it had been weakened before it
parted; but I, remembering the chafing gear which the bo'sun had put
about it in the first instance, felt not so sure; yet I would not add to
their anxieties.

And so it came about that I was compelled to spend the night in the hulk;
but, as I followed Mistress Madison into the big saloon, I felt no
regret, and had near forgotten already my anxiety regarding the rope.

And out on deck there sounded most cheerily the clack of the capstan.




XVI

Freed


Now, when Mistress Madison had seated herself, she invited me to do
likewise, after which we fell into talk, first touching upon the matter
of the stranding of the rope, about which I hastened to assure her, and
later to other things, and so, as is natural enough with a man and maid,
to ourselves, and here we were very content to let it remain.

Presently, the second mate came in with a note from the bo'sun, which he
laid upon the table for the girl to read, the which she beckoned me to do
also, and so I discovered that it was a suggestion, written very rudely
and ill-spelt, that they should send us a quantity of reeds from the
island, with which we might be able to ease the weed somewhat from around
the stern of the hulk, thus aiding her progress. And to this the second
mate desired the girl to write a reply, saying that we should be very
happy for the reeds, and would endeavor to act upon his hint, and this
Mistress Madison did, after which she passed the letter to me, perchance
I desired to send any message. Yet I had naught that I wished to say, and
so handed it back, with a word of thanks, and, at once, she gave it to
the second mate, who went, forthwith, and dispatched it.

Later, the stout woman from the galley came aft to set out the table,
which occupied the center of the saloon, and whilst she was at this, she
asked for information on many things, being very free and unaffected in
her speech, and seeming with less of deference to my companion, than a
certain motherliness; for it was very plain that she loved Mistress
Madison, and in this my heart did not blame her. Further, it was plain to
me that the girl had a very warm affection for her old nurse, which was
but natural, seeing that the old woman had cared for her through all the
past years, besides being companion to her, and a good and cheerful one,
as I could guess.

Now awhile I passed in answering the buxom woman's questions, and odd
times such occasional ones as were slipped in by Mistress Madison; and
then, suddenly there came the clatter of men's feet overhead, and, later,
the thud of something being cast down upon the deck, and so we knew that
the reeds had come. At that, Mistress Madison cried out that we should go
and watch the men try them upon the weed; for that if they proved of use
in easing that which lay in our path, then should we come the more
speedily to the clear water, and this without the need of putting so
great a strain upon the hawser, as had been the case hitherto.

When we came to the poop, we found the men removing a portion of the
superstructure over the stern, and after that they took some of the
stronger reeds, and proceeded to work at the weed that stretched away in
a line with our taffrail. Yet that they anticipated danger, I perceived;
for there stood by them two of the men and the second mate, all armed
with muskets, and these three kept a very strict watch upon the weed,
knowing, through much experience of its terrors, how that there might be
a need for their weapons at any moment. And so a while passed, and it
was plain that the men's work upon the weed was having effect; for the
rope grew slack visibly, and those at the capstan had all that they
could do, taking fleet and fleet with the tackle, to keep it anywhere
near to tautness, and so, perceiving that they were kept so hard at it,
I ran to give a hand, the which did Mistress Madison, pushing upon the
capstan-bars right merrily and with heartiness. And thus a while passed,
and the evening began to come down upon the lonesomeness of the
weed-continent. Then there appeared the buxom woman, and bade us come to
our suppers, and her manner of addressing the two of us was the manner
of one who might have mothered us; but Mistress Madison cried out to her
to wait, that we had found work to do, and at that the big woman
laughed, and came towards us threateningly, as though intending to
remove us hence by force.

And now, at this moment, there came a sudden interruption which checked
our merriment; for, abruptly, there sounded the report of a musket in
the stern, and then came shouts, and the noise of the two other weapons,
seeming like thunder, being pent by the over-arching superstructure.
And, directly, the men about the taffrail gave back, running here and
there, and so I saw that great arms had come all about the opening which
they had made in the superstructure, and two of these flickered
in-board, searching hither and thither; but the stout woman took a man
near to her, and thrust him out of danger, and after that, she caught
Mistress Madison up in her big arms, and ran down on to the main-deck
with her, and all this before I had come to a full knowledge of our
danger. But now I perceived that I should do well to get further back
from the stern, the which I did with haste, and, coming to a safe
position, I stood and stared at the huge creature, its great arms, vague
in the growing dusk, writhing about in vain search for a victim. Then
returned the second mate, having been for more weapons, and now I
observed that he armed all the men, and had brought up a spare musket
for my use, and so we commenced, all of us, to fire at the monster,
whereat it began to lash about most furiously, and so, after some
minutes, it slipped away from the opening and slid down into the weed.
Upon that several of the men rushed to replace those parts of the
superstructure which had been removed, and I with them; yet there were
sufficient for the job, so that I had no need to do aught; thus, before
they had made up the opening, I had been given chance to look out upon
the weed, and so discovered that all the surface which lay between our
stern and the island, was moving in vast ripples, as though mighty fish
were swimming beneath it, and then, just before the men put back the
last of the great panels, I saw the weed all tossed up like to a vast
pot a-boil, and then a vague glimpse of thousands of monstrous arms that
filled the air, and came towards the ship.

And then the men had the panel back in its place, and were hasting to
drive the supporting struts into their positions. And when this was done,
we stood awhile and listened; but there came no sound above that of the
wail of the wind across the extent of the weed-continent. And at that, I
turned to the men, asking how it was that I could hear no sounds of the
creatures attacking us, and so they took me up into the look-out place,
and from there I stared down at the weed; but it was without movement,
save for the stirring of the wind, and there was nowhere any sign of the
devil-fish. Then, seeing me amazed, they told me how that anything which
moved the weed seemed to draw them from all parts; but that they seldom
touched the hulk unless there was something visible to them which had
movement. Yet, as they went on to explain, there would be hundreds and
hundreds of them lying all about the ship, hiding in the weed; but that
if we took care not to show ourselves within their reach, they would have
gone most of them by the morning. And this the men told me in a very
matter-of-fact way; for they had become inured to such happenings.

Presently, I heard Mistress Madison calling to me by name, and so
descended out of the growing darkness, to the interior of the
superstructure, and here they had lit a number of rude slush-lamps, the
oil for which, as I learned later, they obtained from a certain fish
which haunted the sea, beneath the weed, in very large schools, and took
near any sort of bait with great readiness. And so, when I had climbed
down into the light, I found the girl waiting for me to come to supper,
for which I discovered myself to be in a mightily agreeable humor.

Presently, having made an end of eating, she leaned back in her seat and
commenced once more to bait me in her playful manner, the which appeared
to afford her much pleasure, and in which I joined with no less, and so
we fell presently to more earnest talk, and in this wise we passed a
great space of the evening. Then there came to her a sudden idea, and
what must she do but propose that we should climb to the lookout, and to
this I agreed with a very happy willingness. And to the lookout we went.
Now when we had come there, I perceived her reason for this freak; for
away in the night, astern the hulk, there blazed half-way between the
heaven and the sea, a mighty glow, and suddenly, as I stared, being dumb
with admiration and surprise, I knew that it was the blaze of our fires
upon the crown of the bigger hill; for, all the hill being in shadow, and
hidden by the darkness, there showed only the glow of the fires, hung, as
it were, in the void, and a very striking and beautiful spectacle it was.
Then, as I watched, there came, abruptly a figure into view upon the
edge of the glow, showing black and minute, and this I knew to be one of
the men come to the edge of the hill to take a look at the hulk, or test
the strain on the hawser. Now, upon my expressing admiration of the sight
to Mistress Madison, she seemed greatly pleased, and told me that she had
been up many times in the darkness to view it. And after that we went
down again into the interior of the superstructure, and here the men were
taking a further heave upon the big rope, before settling the watches for
the night, the which they managed, by having one man at a time to keep
awake and call the rest whenever the hawser grew slack.

Later Mistress Madison showed me where I was to sleep, and so, having bid
one another a very warm good-night, we parted, she going to see that her
aunt was comfortable, and I out on to the main-deck to have a chat with
the man on watch. In this way, I passed the time until midnight, and in
that while we had been forced to call the men thrice to heave upon the
hawser, so quickly had the ship begun to make way through the weed. Then,
having grown sleepy, I said goodnight, and went to my berth, and so had
my first sleep upon a mattress, for some weeks.

Now when the morning was come, I waked, hearing Mistress Madison calling
upon me from the other side of my door, and rating me very saucily for a
lie-a-bed, and at that I made good speed at dressing, and came quickly
into the saloon, where she had ready a breakfast that made me glad I had
waked. But first, before she would do aught else, she had me out to the
lookout place, running up before me most merrily and singing in the
fullness of her glee, and so, when I had come to the top of the
superstructure, I perceived that she had very good reason for so much
merriment, and the sight which came to my eyes, gladdened me most
mightily, yet at the same time filling me with a great amazement; for,
behold! in the course of that one night, we had made near unto two
hundred fathoms across the weed, being now, with what we had made
previously, no more than some thirty fathoms in from the edge of the
weed. And there stood Mistress Madison beside me, doing somewhat of a
dainty step-dance upon the flooring of the look-out, and singing a quaint
old lilt that I had not heard that dozen years, and this little thing, I
think, brought back more clearly to me than aught else how that this
winsome maid had been lost to the world for so many years, having been
scarce of the age of twelve when the ship had been lost in the
weed-continent. Then, as I turned to make some remark, being filled with
many feelings, there came a hail, from far above in the air, as it might
be, and, looking up, I discovered the man upon the hill to be standing
along the edge, and waving to us, and now I perceived how that the hill
towered a very great way above us, seeming, as it were, to overhang the
hulk though we were yet some seventy fathoms distant from the sheer sweep
of its nearer precipice. And so, having waved back our greeting, we made
down to breakfast, and, having come to the saloon, set-to upon the good
victuals, and did very sound justice thereto.

Presently, having made an end of eating, and hearing the clack of the
capstan-pawls, we hurried out on deck, and put our hands upon the bars,
intending to join in that last heave which should bring the ship free out
of her long captivity, and so for a time we moved round about the
capstan, and I glanced at the girl beside me; for she had become very
solemn, and indeed it was a strange and solemn time for her; for she, who
had dreamed of the world as her childish eyes had seen it, was now, after
many hopeless years, to go forth once more to it--to live in it, and to
learn how much had been dreams, and how much real; and with all these
thoughts I credited her; for they seemed such as would have come to me at
such a time, and, presently, I made some blundering effort to show to
her that I had understanding of the tumult which possessed her, and at
that she smiled up at me with a sudden queer flash of sadness and
merriment, and our glances met, and I saw something in hers, which was
but newborn, and though I was but a young man, my heart interpreted it
for me, and I was all hot suddenly with the pain and sweet delight of
this new thing; for I had not dared to think upon that which already my
heart had made bold to whisper to me, so that even thus soon I was
miserable out of her presence. Then she looked downward at her hands upon
the bar; and, in the same instant, there came a loud, abrupt cry from the
second mate, to vast heaving, and at that all the men pulled out their
bars and cast them upon the deck, and ran, shouting, to the ladder that
led to the look-out, and we followed, and so came to the top, and
discovered that at last the ship was clear of the weed, and floating in
the open water between it and the island.

Now at the discovery that the hulk was free, the men commenced to cheer
and shout in a very wild fashion, as, indeed, is no cause for wonder, and
we cheered with them. Then, suddenly, in the midst of our shouting,
Mistress Madison plucked me by the sleeve and pointed to the end of the
island where the foot of the bigger hill jutted out in a great spur, and
now I perceived a boat, coming round into view, and in another moment I
saw that the bo'sun stood in the stern, steering; thus I knew that he
must have finished repairing her whilst I had been on the hulk. By this,
the men about us had discovered the nearness of the boat, and commenced
shouting afresh, and they ran down, and to the bows of the vessel, and
got ready a rope to cast. Now when the boat came near, the men in her
scanned us very curiously, but the bo'sun took off his head-gear, with a
clumsy grace that well became him; at which Mistress Madison smiled very
kindly upon him, and, after that, she told me with great frankness that
he pleased her, and, more, that she had never seen so great a man, which
was not strange seeing that she had seen but few since she had come to
years when men become of interest to a maid.

After saluting us the bo'sun called out to the second mate that he would
tow us round to the far side of the island, and to this the officer
agreed, being, I surmised, by no means sorry to put some solid matter
between himself and the desolation of the great weed-continent; and so,
having loosed the hawser, which fell from the hill-top with a prodigious
splash, we had the boat head, towing. In this wise we opened out,
presently, the end of the hill; but feeling now the force of the breeze,
we bent a kedge to the hawser, and, the bo'sun carrying it seawards, we
warped ourselves to windward of the island, and here, in forty fathoms,
we vast heaving, and rode to the kedge.

Now when this was accomplished they called to our men to come aboard, and
this they did, and spent all of that day in talk and eating; for those in
the ship could scarce make enough of our fellows. And then, when it had
come to night, they replaced that part of the superstructure which they
had removed from about the head of the mizzen-stump, and so, all being
secure, each one turned-in and had a full night's rest, of the which,
indeed, many of them stood in sore need.

The following morning, the second mate had a consultation with the
bo'sun, after which he gave the order to commence upon the removal of the
great superstructure, and to this each one of us set himself with vigor.
Yet it was a work requiring some time, and near five days had passed
before we had the ship stripped clear. When this had been accomplished,
there came a busy time of routing out various matter of which we should
have need in jury rigging her; for they had been so long in disuse, that
none remembered where to look for them. At this a day and a half was
spent, and after that we set-to about fitting her with such jury-masts as
we could manage from our material.

Now, after the ship had been dismasted, all those seven years gone, the
crew had been able to save many of her spars, these having remained
attached to her, through their inability to cut away all of the gear; and
though this had put them in sore peril at the time, of being sent to the
bottom with a hole in their side, yet now had they every reason to be
thankful; for, by this accident, we had now a foreyard, a topsail-yard, a
main t'gallant-yard, and the fore-topmast. They had saved more than
these; but had made use of the smaller spars to shore up the
superstructure, sawing them into lengths for that purpose. Apart from
such spars as they had managed to secure, they had a spare topmast lashed
along under the larboard bulwarks, and a spare t'gallant and royal mast
lying along the starboard side.

Now, the second mate and the bo'sun set the carpenter to work upon the
spare topmast, bidding him make for it some trestle-trees and bolsters,
upon which to lay the eyes of the rigging; but they did not trouble him
to shape it. Further, they ordered the same to be fitted to the
foretopmast and the spare t'gallant and royal mast. And in the meanwhile,
the rigging was prepared, and when this was finished, they made ready the
shears to hoist the spare topmast, intending this to take the place of
the main lower-mast. Then, when the carpenter had carried out their
orders, he was set to make three partners with a step cut in each, these
being intended to take the heels of the three masts, and when these were
completed, they bolted them securely to the decks at the fore part of
each one of the stumps of the three lower-masts. And so, having all
ready, we hove the mainmast into position, after which we proceeded to
rig it. Now, when we had made an end of this, we set-to upon the
foremast, using for this the foretopmast which they had saved, and after
that we hove the mizzenmast into place, having for this the spare
t'gallant and royal mast.

Now the manner in which we secured the masts, before ever we came to the
rigging of them, was by lashing them to the stumps of the lower-masts,
and after we had lashed them, we drove dunnage and wedges between the
masts and the lashings, thus making them very secure. And so, when we had
set up the rigging, we had confidence that they would stand all such sail
as we should be able to set upon them. Yet, further than this, the bo'sun
bade the carpenter make wooden caps of six inch oak, these caps to fit
over the _squared_ heads of the lower-mast stumps, and having a hole,
each of them, to embrace the jury-mast, and by making these caps in two
halves, they were able to bolt them on after the masts had been hove
into position.

And so, having gotten in our three jury lower-masts, we hoisted up the
foreyard to the main, to act as our mainyard, and did likewise with the
topsail-yard to the fore, and after that, we sent up the t'gallant-yard
to the mizzen. Thus we had her sparred, all but a bowsprit and jibboom;
yet this we managed by making a stumpy, spike bowsprit from one of the
smaller spars which they had used to shore up the superstructure, and
because we feared that it lacked strength to bear the strain of our fore
and aft stays, we took down two hawsers from the fore, passing them in
through the hawse-holes and setting them up there. And so we had her
rigged, and, after that, we bent such sail as our gear abled us to carry,
and in this wise had the hulk ready for sea.

Now, the time that it took us to rig the ship, and fit her out, was seven
weeks, saving one day. And in all this time we suffered no molestation
from any of the strange habitants of the weed-continent; though this may
have been because we kept fires of dried weed going all the night about
the decks, these fires being lit on big flat pieces of rock which we had
gotten from the island. Yet, for all that we had not been troubled, we
had more than once discovered strange things in the water swimming near
to the vessel; but a flare of weed, hung over the side, on the end of a
reed, had sufficed always to scare away such unholy visitants.

And so at last we came to the day on which we were in so good a
condition that the bo'sun and the second mate considered the ship to be
in a fit state to put to sea--the carpenter having gone over so much of
her hull as he could get at and found her everywhere very sound; though
her lower parts were hideously overgrown with weed, barnacles and other
matters; yet this we could not help, and it was not wise to attempt to
scrape her, having consideration to the creatures which we knew to
abound in those waters.

Now in those seven weeks, Mistress Madison and I had come very close to
one another, so that I had ceased to call her by any name save Mary,
unless it were a dearer one than that; though this would be one of my own
invention, and would leave my heart too naked did I put it down here.

Of our love one for the other, I think yet, and ponder how that mighty
man, the bo'sun, came so quickly to a knowledge of the state of our
hearts; for he gave me a very sly hint one day that he had a sound idea
of the way in which the wind blew, and yet, though he said it with a
half-jest, methought there was something wistful in his voice, as he
spoke, and at that I just clapped my hand in his, and he gave it a very
huge grip. And after that he ceased from the subject.




XVII

How We Came to Our Own Country


Now, when the day came on which we made to leave the nearness of the
island, and the waters of that strange sea, there was great lightness
of heart among us, and we went very merrily about such tasks as were
needful. And so, in a little, we had the kedge tripped, and had cast
the ship's head to starboard, and presently, had her braced up upon
the larboard tack, the which we managed very well; though our gear
worked heavily, as might be expected. And after that we had gotten
under way, we went to the lee side to witness the last of that
lonesome island, and with us came the men of the ship, and so, for a
space, there was a silence among us; for they were very quiet, looking
astern and saying naught; but we had sympathy with them, knowing
somewhat of those past years.

And now the bo'sun came to the break of the poop, and called down to the
men to muster aft, the which they did, and I with them; for I had come to
regard them as my very good comrades; and rum was served out to each of
them, and to me along with the rest, and it was Mistress Madison herself
who dipped it out to us from the wooden bucket; though it was the buxom
woman who had brought it up from the lazarette. Now, after the rum, the
bo'sun bade the crew to clear up the gear about the decks, and get
matters secured, and at that I turned to go with the men, having become
so used to work with them; but he called to me to come up to him upon the
poop, the which I did, and there he spoke respectfully, remonstrating
with me, and reminding me that now there was need no longer for me to
toil; for that I was come back to my old position of passenger, such as I
had been in the _Glen Carrig_, ere she foundered. But to this talk of
his, I made reply that I had as good a right to work my passage home as
any other among us; for though I had paid for a passage in the _Glen
Carrig_, I had done no such thing regarding the _Seabird_--this being the
name of the hulk--and to this, my reply, the bo'sun said little; but I
perceived that he liked my spirit, and so from thence until we reached
the Port of London, I took my turn and part in all seafaring matters,
having become by this quite proficient in the calling. Yet, in one
matter, I availed myself of my former position; for I chose to live aft,
and by this was abled to see much of my sweetheart, Mistress Madison.

Now after dinner upon the day on which we left the island, the bo'sun and
the second mate picked the watches, and thus I found myself chosen to be
in the bo'sun's, at which I was mightly pleased. And when the watches had
been picked, they had all hands to 'bout ship, the which, to the pleasure
of all, she accomplished; for under such gear and with so much growth
upon her bottom, they had feared that we should have to veer, and by this
we should have lost much distance to leeward, whereas we desired to edge
so much to windward as we could, being anxious to put space between us
and the weed-continent. And twice more that day we put the ship about,
though the second time it was to avoid a great bank of weed that lay
floating athwart our bows; for all the sea to windward of the island, so
far as we had been able to see from the top of the higher hill, was
studded with floating masses of the weed, like unto thousands of islets,
and in places like to far-spreading reefs. And, because of these, the sea
all about the island remained very quiet and unbroken, so that there was
never any surf, no, nor scarce a broken wave upon its shore, and this,
for all that the wind had been fresh for many days.

When the evening came, we were again upon the larboard tack, making,
perhaps, some four knots in the hour; though, had we been in proper rig,
and with a clean bottom, we had been making eight or nine, with so good a
breeze and so calm a sea. Yet, so far, our progress had been very
reasonable; for the island lay, maybe, some five miles to leeward, and
about fifteen astern. And so we prepared for the night. Yet, a little
before dark, we discovered that the weed-continent trended out towards
us; so that we should pass it, maybe, at a distance of something like
half a mile, and, at that, there was talk between the second mate and the
bo'sun as to whether it was better to put the ship about, and gain a
greater sea-room before attempting to pass this promontory of weed; but
at last they decided that we had naught to fear; for we had fair way
through the water, and further, it did not seem reasonable to suppose
that we should have aught to fear from the habitants of the
weed-continent, at so great a distance as the half of a mile. And so we
stood on; for, once past the point, there was much likelihood of the weed
trending away to the Eastward, and if this were so, we could square-in
immediately and get the wind upon our quarter, and so make better way.

Now it was the bo'sun's watch from eight of the evening until midnight,
and I, with another man, had the lookout until four bells. Thus it
chanced that, coming abreast of the point during our time of watching,
we peered very earnestly to leeward; for the night was dark, having no
moon until nearer the morning; and we were full of unease in that we had
come so near again to the desolation of that strange continent. And
then, suddenly, the man with me clutched my shoulder, and pointed into
the darkness upon our bow, and thus I discovered that we had come nearer
to the weed than the bo'sun and the second mate had intended; they,
without doubt, having miscalculated our leeway. At this, I turned and
sang out to the bo'sun that we were near to running upon the weed, and,
in the same moment, he shouted to the helmsman to luff, and directly
afterwards our starboard side was brushing against the great outlying
tufts of the point, and so, for a breathless minute, we waited. Yet the
ship drew clear, and so into the open water beyond the point; but I had
seen something as we scraped against the weed, a sudden glimpse of
white, gliding among the growth, and then I saw others, and, in a
moment, I was down on the main-deck, and running aft to the bo'sun; yet
midway along the deck a horrid shape came above the starboard rail, and
I gave out a loud cry of warning. Then I had a capstan-bar from the rack
near, and smote with it at the thing, crying all the while for help, and
at my blow the thing went from my sight, and the bo'sun was with me, and
some of the men.

Now the bo'sun had seen my stroke, and so sprang upon the t'gallant rail,
and peered over; but gave back on the instant, shouting to me to run and
call the other watch, for that the sea was full of the monsters swimming
off to the ship, and at that I was away at a run, and when I had waked
the men, I raced aft to the cabin and did likewise with the second mate,
and so returned in a minute, bearing the bo'sun's cutlass, my own
cut-and-thrust, and the lantern that hung always in the saloon. Now when
I had gotten back, I found all things in a mighty scurry--men running
about in their shirts and drawers, some in the galley bringing fire from
the stove, and others lighting a fire of dry weed to leeward of the
galley, and along the starboard rail there was already a fierce fight,
the men using capstan-bars, even as I had done. Then I thrust the
bo'sun's cutlass into his hand, and at that he gave a great shout, part
of joy, and part of approbation, and after that he snatched the lantern
from me, and had run to the larboard side of the deck, before I was well
aware that he had taken the light; but now I followed him, and happy it
was for all of us in the ship that he had thought to go at that moment;
for the light of the lantern showed me the vile faces of three of the
weed men climbing over the larboard rail; yet the bo'sun had cleft them
or ever I could come near; but in a moment I was full busy; for there
came nigh a dozen heads above the rail a little aft of where I was, and
at that I ran at them, and did good execution; but some had been aboard,
if the bo'sun had not come to my help. And now the decks were full of
light, several fires having been lit, and the second mate having brought
out fresh lanterns; and now the men had gotten their cutlasses, the which
were more handy than the capstan-bars; and so the fight went forward,
some having come over to our side to help us, and a very wild sight it
must have seemed to any onlooker; for all about the decks burned the
fires and the lanterns, and along the rails ran the men, smiting at
hideous faces that rose in dozens into the wild glare of our fighting
lights. And everywhere drifted the stench of the brutes. And up on the
poop, the fight was as brisk as elsewhere; and here, having been drawn by
a cry for help, I discovered the buxom woman smiting with a gory meat-axe
at a vile thing which had gotten a clump of its tentacles upon her dress;
but she had dispatched it, or ever my sword could help her, and then, to
my astonishment, even at that time of peril, I discovered the captain's
wife, wielding a small sword, and the face of her was like to the face of
a tiger; for her mouth was drawn, and showed her teeth clenched; but she
uttered no word nor cry, and I doubt not but that she had some vague idea
that she worked her husband's vengeance.

Then, for a space, I was as busy as any, and afterwards I ran to the
buxom woman to demand the whereabouts of Mistress Madison, and she, in a
very breathless voice, informed me that she had locked her in her room
out of harm's way, and at that I could have embraced the woman; for I had
been sorely anxious to know that my sweetheart was safe.

And, presently, the fight diminished, and so, at last, came to an end,
the ship having drawn well away from the point, and being now in the
open. And after that I ran down to my sweetheart, and opened her door,
and thus, for a space, she wept, having her arms about my neck; for she
had been in sore terror for me, and for all the ship's company. But,
soon, drying her tears, she grew very indignant with her nurse for having
locked her into her room, and refused to speak to that good woman for
near an hour. Yet I pointed out to her that she could be of very great
use in dressing such wounds as had been received, and so she came back to
her usual brightness, and brought out bandages, and lint, and ointment,
and thread, and was presently very busy.

Now it was later that there rose a fresh commotion in the ship; for it
had been discovered that the captain's wife was a-missing. At this, the
bo'sun and the second mate instituted a search; but she was nowhere to be
found, and, indeed, none in the ship ever saw her again, at which it was
presumed that she had been dragged over by some of the weed men, and so
come upon her death. And at this, there came a great prostration to my
sweetheart so that she would not be comforted for the space of nigh three
days, by which time the ship had come clear of those strange seas, having
left the incredible desolation of the weed-continent far under our
starboard counter.

And so, after a voyage which lasted for nine and seventy days since
getting under weigh, we came to the Port of London, having refused all
offers of assistance on the way.

Now here, I had to say farewell to my comrades of so many months and
perilous adventures; yet, being a man not entirely without means, I
took care that each of them should have a certain gift by which to
remember me.

And I placed monies in the hands of the buxom woman, so that she could
have no reason to stint my sweetheart, and she having--for the comfort of
her conscience--taken her good man to the church, set up a little house
upon the borders of my estate; but this was not until Mistress Madison
had come to take her place at the head of my hall in the County of Essex.

Now one further thing there is of which I must tell. Should any,
chancing to trespass upon my estate, come upon a man of very mighty
proportions, albeit somewhat bent by age, seated comfortably at the door
of his little cottage, then shall they know him for my friend the
bo'sun; for to this day do he and I fore-gather, and let our talk drift
to the desolate places of this earth, pondering upon that which we have
seen--the weed-continent, where reigns desolation and the terror of its
strange habitants. And, after that, we talk softly of the land where God
hath made monsters after the fashion of trees. Then, maybe, my children
come about me, and so we change to other matters; for the little ones
love not terror.



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOATS OF THE "GLEN CARRIG"***


******* This file should be named 10542.txt or 10542.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/5/4/10542


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS," WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook's
eBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,
compressed (zipped), HTML and others.

Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take over
the old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.
VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receiving
new filenames and etext numbers.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,
are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want to
download any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regular
search system you may utilize the following addresses and just
download by the etext year.

http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext06

    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,
     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)

EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, are
filed in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer part
of the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which is
identical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of single
digits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  For
example an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:

http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234

or filename 24689 would be found at:
http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689

An alternative method of locating eBooks:
http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL

*** END: FULL LICENSE ***
